6420
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/22/movies/22kabe.html
the director’s restrained emotional grammar is surprisingly affecting: he may be unsentimental about his country’s past but when it comes to mothers there isn’t a bigger softie in the house." “Kabei: Our Mother” is a soapy immersion in the tribulations of Kayo (Sayuri Yoshinaga) a Tokyo wife and mother facing World War  II with two small daughters and a husband incarcerated for his political beliefs." this lengthy yet seductive yarn provides Kayo with a colorful extended family — including an authority-flouting uncle and a cruelly disapproving father — and the director Yoji Yamada with ample opportunity for political critique. In ways both blunt and sneaky he shows how imperialistic ambition affects ordinary lives lending this simple family drama unexpected weight. The movie’s heart may lie in the growing fondness between Kayo and a young male friend (an uncharacteristically endearing Tadanobu Asano) but its mind is occupied with deeper issues." Tadanobu Asano (Yamazaki Toru) Miku Sato (Teruyo Nogami) Mirai Shida (Hatsuko Nogami) Keiko Toda (adult Teruyo Nogami) and Shofukutei Tsurubei (Senkichi Fujioka)." Mr. Yamada director of the long-running “Tora-San” series reels us in slowly with his attention to detail (the children’s  carefully erasing their father’s notes from his books before taking them to the prison) and his obvious delight in small moments of family intimacy." based on the biography of Teruyo Nogami; director of photography Mutsuo Naganuma; edited by Iwai Ishii; music by Isao Tomita; production designer Mitsuo Degawa; produced by Hiroshi Fukazawa and Takashi Yajima; released by Strand Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. In Japanese with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 13 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6421
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/22/movies/22hear.html
” a stilted rant against small-town bigotry and xenophobia in 1950s America might have been more effective with a little more honey and a lot less vinegar." Michael Santoro (Frank Dugan) and Rosanne Ma (Liz)." Allen Blumberg writes and directs with sledgehammer commitment too angry to notice that his corn-encrusted dialogue runs counter to the sobriety of his intentions. (“I let your rottenness spread through this town ” hisses one character.) Battling the Spillane-isms is Roland Lu (Phil Moon) a Chinese-American reporter who returns to his hometown to witness rampant racial oppression and political skullduggery." everyone around Roland — his boozy father his left-behind girl (a pleasantly understated Rosanne Ma) — seems more bitter about his escape than about their own persecution. (The plot’s offensively clichéd portrayal of American Indians is another problem entirely.) As Roland chases doctored soil reports and a possible Pulitzer not even Antoine Vivas Denisov’s crystalline black-and-white photography can sweeten the didactic mood." produced and directed by Allen Blumberg; director of photography Antoine Vivas Denisov; edited by Emily Paine; music by Tom Hiel; production designer Roshelle Berliner; released by ABL Communications. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6422
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/22/movies/22sher.html
including two Academy Awards and a Grammy the inexhaustible  sibling songwriting duo Richard and Robert Sherman have yet to reach the household-name status that many of their catchy tunes have. (“Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious ” “Winnie-the-Pooh” and “Chitty Chitty Bang Bang” are just a few examples of their memorably kooky spirit-lifting songs.)" ” an irresistible documentary portrait of the  brothers made by their sons is a family affair dysfunction included. Richard and Robert’s inspired 50-year working relationship —  they were Walt Disney’s only staff songwriters —  is countered by their less-than-genial personal one. The directors Gregory (only son of Richard) and Jeffrey (eldest son of Robert) who going against current trends appear on screen only briefly were strangers growing up. It was just recently that they became acquainted and decided to tell their fathers’ story." quieter brother) and Richard (the showier one) is conveyed in all its glory through archival clips and recollections by colleagues fans relatives and the Shermans themselves. But for all the references to their not being able to stand the sight of each other outside the office the reasons remain frustratingly hazy in this otherwise comprehensive fulfilling film." Richard Numeroff; edited by Rich Evirs; released by Walt Disney Studios. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." 
6423
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/22/movies/22orde.html
their personal lives and private obsessions. “New World Order” merely gawks at them." no doubt tantalizing speculations to be made about the “inside job” that demolished the World Trade Center and the nefarious agenda of the global elite movies about such things do well to involve James Bond and giant explosions." ” an unrelentingly tedious documentary by Luke Meyer and Andrew Neel follows a group of considerably less glamorous truth-seekers. The most prominent of  the filmmakers’ subjects the radio host Alex Jones who is based in Austin Tex. rails against the powers that be  all of them    in a manner that reinforces every cliché of the conspiracy theorist loon: paranoid megalomaniacal delusional sweaty. The documentary’s most action-packed scene finds Mr. Jones throwing a major hissy fit when his hotel fire alarm goes off thereby proving without a shadow of a doubt that “they” are trying to suppress his revelations." Luke Rudowski a 21-year-old New Yorker spends all his free time distributing fliers and DVDs purporting to uncover the truth about 9/11. Seth Jackson a relief worker in Louisiana does his part by heckling Bill Clinton and other dark overlords. A retired police officer Jack McLamb meanwhile has retreated to the safety of a separatist militia group." Mr. Meyer Mr. Neel and Ethan Palmer; edited by Nathan S. Caswell; music by Jonn Ollison and Jonah Rapiro; produced by Tom Davis; released by See Think Films and IFC TV. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6424
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/22/movies/22nigh.html
you will at least be able to enjoy Hank Azaria and Amy Adams who play a fictitious pharaoh named Kahmunrah and the famed aviatrix Amelia Earhart. Historical accuracy is not the point. No Egyptian potentate ever spoke in a lisping aristocratic British accent but Mr. Azaria is the master of funny voices and he does fine work as the heavy. Ms. Adams impersonating Earhart as a flame-haired screwball-comedy heroine is entirely delightful though whether the pioneering pilot would ever have developed a crush on Ben Stiller is a matter for scholars to ponder. Perhaps the only such matter in this shallow and harmlessly diverting picture." innocuous and intermittently thrilling family entertainment. Keep the emotions safe simple and knowable and focus the younger audience’s attention on a magic show of cute funny zany creatures and characters while throwing some half-clever verbal humor at the older kids and the accompanying parents. Apply a touch of prestige on loan from widely admired educational and cultural institutions and voilà. You can’t lose." Jake Cherry (Nick Daley) Amy Adams (Amelia Earhart) Owen Wilson (Jedediah) Hank Azaria (Kahmunrah) Christopher Guest (Ivan the Terrible) Alain Chabat (Napoleon) Steve Coogan (Octavius) Ricky Gervais (Dr. McPhee) Bill Hader (General Custer) Jon Bernthal (Al Capone) and Robin Williams (Teddy Roosevelt)." of course but even the first “Night at the Museum ” directed as this one is by Shawn Levy was a mixture of old hat and cool new stuff." bossy anxious foil for the various historical figures and artworks that spring magically to life when the sun goes down. Owen Wilson and Steve Coogan are back as Jedediah and Octavius two miniature warriors from different epochs (one cowboy one Roman) and Robin Williams takes another turn as Teddy Roosevelt. There are some bobble-headed Einsteins a giant marble Abraham Lincoln (who steps down off his memorial to knock a few heads together) Gen. George Custer (Bill Hader) and a smattering of classic paintings sculptures and photographs." John Schwartzman; edited by Don Zimmerman and Dean Zimmerman; music by Alan Silvestri; production designer Claude Paré; produced by Mr. Levy Chris Columbus and Michael Barnathan; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." but here he is again a virtuoso of hostility playing the lead in a warm and fuzzy family comedy." by jolting inanimate objects into action-movie service “Night at the Museum” does its part to encourage the museum world’s embrace of spectacle sensationalism and pseudo-pedagogical pop-cultural pandering. (A brief attempt to mock this tendency is by far the least convincing thing in the movie.)" whose learning of an important life lesson (as in the first installment) frames the nocturnal shenanigans that are the movie’s reason for being. In “Night at the Museum” he was a drifting divorced dad who needed to reconnect with his son and learn to follow his dreams. Now having followed them to unlikely success as an inventor and late-night infomercial star he must again reconnect with his very patient son (Jake Cherry) and also learn to stop following his dreams or follow different ones or something." 
6425
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/22/movies/22hort.html
which is something of a translinguistic pun. It is the first name of the main character a train engineer on the Oslo-Bergen line whose retirement initiates what action there is in this restrained bittersweet comedy. And Odd Horten a pipe smoker of few words and regular habits played by Baard Owe is true to the English meaning of his perfectly ordinary Norwegian name a somewhat eccentric fellow." written and directed by Bent Hamer whose name also looks like a bit of Anglo-Nordic wordplay. A craftsman who favors slightly crooked tools Mr. Hamer has come to specialize in movies about men with offbeat sensibilities and curious work situations. His 2003 feature “Kitchen Stories ” examined a group of social scientists observing the domestic habits of bachelors in 1950s Sweden. It was followed two years later by the English-language “Factotum ” whose very title evokes odd jobs and whose hero played by Matt Dillon never lasted more than a day or two in any of them." directed and produced by Bent Hamer; director of photography John Christian Rosenlund; edited by Pal Gengenbach; music by Kaada; production designer Kalli Juliusson; released by Sony Pictures Classics. In Norwegian with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." less clowning Jacques Tati. But Mr. Hamer’s quiet curious cinematic universe is its own special place. Not a lot happens there — a guy buys a pipe or drinks a beer or attempts a ski jump — but it is anything but dull. This is also a world of feelings that however small or indirectly expressed are authentic and recognizable. “O’Horten” is about frustration patience kindness and the wildness that lurks in even the calmest hearts. What’s odd about that?" Espen Skjonberg (Trygve Sissener) Githa Norby (Fru Thogersen) Bjorn Floberg (Flo) Kai Remlov (Steiner Sissener) and Henny Moan (Svea)." some of them down dead-end paths others through neglected areas. Oslo and its environs have a stately careworn look and the omnipresent snow muffles even painful or intense emotions. Horten’s cool quizzical stoicism seems like an apt response to this environment which makes you think that maybe he isn’t so odd after all." and he is rewarded with a silver-plated miniature locomotive after 40  years of service. A railway man to the end he has never been in an airplane and causes some havoc when he visits a friend at the airport where the rules and protocols are nothing like what he’s used to." ” made up of meticulously constructed deadpan scenes that turn on Keatonesque visual jokes shows some affinity with other recent films of similar geographic provenance. The slightly anachronistic mood and décor as if we had wandered into a neighborhood untouched since sometime in the middle of the 20th century shows clear affinities with the work of Aki Kaurismaki of Finland many of whose characters are more dissolute versions of Horten." stumbling into a strange apartment through the window finds himself a prisoner in a young boy’s bedroom; Horten stuck on a runway lights up his pipe; Horten in the passenger seat survives what must be the gentlest fatal car accident in history — are like sweeter variations on the mordant visual jokes that are a specialty of the Swedish director Roy Andersson (“Songs  From the Second Floor ” “You the Living”)." one he explores with a dry unsentimental warmth. Here is a fellow who has spent most of his life ruled by a timetable and traveling in straight lines. What will happen when he is allowed to stray to meander to loaf?" 
6426
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/22/movies/22glas.html
on posters (his silhouette of Bob Dylan with psychedelic hair is one of his most famous)  and in restaurants and supermarkets. The hallmarks of his work are its simplicity wit and elegance; it may be commercial art but with a capital A. One of his strategies he says is to appeal to the problem-solving part of the brain by creating simple visual puzzles." this small heartening documentary produced and directed by Wendy Keys concentrates on his work with analysis by many commentators of whom the most articulate is Mr. Glaser himself. The film takes its title from a quotation of Horace —  “the purpose of art is to inform and delight” — that encapsulates Mr. Glaser’s humanist aesthetic." the celebrated graphic designer who is about to turn 80. It was Mr. Glaser who came up with the “I ♥  NY” logo in the 1970s when the city then on the verge of bankruptcy was widely perceived as a crime-infested danger zone.  As the center of a campaign to revive New York the logo helped reverse the decline and boost morale." douse it with Velveeta and  ketchup bake it into a mound shaped like the dome of St. Peter’s fry it in chicken fat then slice it —  explains  a lot." Mr. Glaser recalls he grew up in a crowded three-room apartment in the Bronx and attended the High School of Music  and Art in Manhattan and Cooper Union. He discovered the wonders of great art after winning a Fulbright  scholarship to study at the Academy of Fine Arts of Bologna Italy under the painter Giorgio Morandi. It was there he recalls that he realized “history was not the enemy” and he rejected strict modernism. We meet Mr. Glaser’s wife Shirley with whom he has collaborated on children’s books and are shown the couple’s remarkable collection of African art." David W. Leitner; edited by Tom Piper; music by Hayes Greenfield; released by Art House Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 13 minutes. This film is not rated." a pleasure he first discovered in Italy and takes special pride in the Underground Gourmet columns he wrote with Jerome Snyder for New York magazine because they showed middle-class New Yorkers the joys of the city’s ethnic restaurants." who speaks with the measured phrases of a born teacher emerges as an articulate and humane philosopher of communication through art. “Everything is related to its opposite ” he observes. If you have light there has to be darkness; truth requires lies; the world we live in is a kind of purgatory." 
6427
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/22/movies/22girl.html
and pays a visit to a creepy sex geek whose Web site rates the services of New York’s escorts and who styles himself the Erotic Connoisseur. (He is played by Glenn Kenny a film critic and entertainment writer  — and thus a cordial screening-room acquaintance of mine —  with a combination of grandiose self-regard and theatrical self-disgust that recalls Orson Welles in his Paul Masson wine commercials.) What Chelsea reveals as she tries to refine her marketing strategies and improve her brand is not that everyone is a whore — equating capitalism with prostitution would be an easy moralizing route for the film to take — but rather that everyone is hustling trying to get a bit of leverage in a tough economic climate." which might not be her real name has a live-in boyfriend named Chris (Chris Santos) who works as a personal trainer tending to the bodies of some of the same kinds of guys who hire Chelsea for her services. The similarities between them are established a little too pointedly but they are nonetheless thought provoking. Both Chris and Chelsea belong to a sector of the economy that depends on the blurring of certain distinctions between service and friendship say or profit and affection. Therapists exercise instructors nannies manicurists bartenders —  when you think about it they are all paid for something that can easily be mistaken for love." nudity and language." with a relatively low budget a portable high-definition video camera and a mostly nonprofessional cast. The film’s means are modest not unlike the guerrilla techniques Mr. Soderbergh used in “Che ” but nonetheless “The Girlfriend Experience”  has a sleek tailored look appropriate to its setting which is the moneyed precincts of Manhattan at the height — and  most likely the end — of the recent gilded age. Every frame swims with signs of dearly bought casually enjoyed luxury as the camera makes its way from high-end boutiques to jewelbox hotels exclusive restaurants and the cabin of a private plane." as he and Chelsea strip down rhapsodizes about the communication between them which of course is the basis for any successful relationship. (“Yeah totally ” she says slipping between the sheets.) But Chelsea who experiences a twinge of romantic jealousy —  disguised perhaps as professional rivalry — when she sees a once-loyal client on the town with another escort is not immune to such feelings and finds herself drawn to a sympathetic new customer in ways that throw her off balance." and it also puts a crack in the movie’s smooth veneer of cynical indifference. The idea that Chelsea the girlfriend for sale is herself succumbing to the false allure of the girlfriend experience is an interesting one but neither the script by Brian Koppelman and David Levien (who also wrote “Ocean’s Thirteen”) nor Ms. Grey’s cool tentative acting can quite sustain the level of emotional complication necessary to bring it to dramatic life. Mr. Soderbergh’s fractured chronology and chilly observant style don’t help matters. The film having mystified Chelsea’s poise and made much of her gift for persuasive artifice cannot manage the complication of her vulnerability or chart the terrain of her inner life." ” which has been available on video on demand for the past month may look different a few years from now." at least in part. “The Girlfriend Experience” is about and also traffics in the intoxification of surfaces and to say it objectifies Ms. Grey who is very young (just 21) and very pretty would be more plot summary than critique. Ms. Grey whose career in pornography has been distinguished both by the extremity of what she is willing to do and an unusual degree of intellectual seriousness about doing it is not so much acting here as posing a series of philosophical problems testing the conceptual and experiential boundaries between degradation and empowerment predator and prey person and commodity." of Chelsea in the company of a handsome well-mannered customer are presented as a kind of optical illusion. For all we know these two attractive people chatting unhurriedly over dinner then kissing and sipping wine on the couch before making their way to bed are lovers of long standing and deep attachment. Only when cash changes hands in the morning do we perceive the transactional nature of the affair." and this professional background along with her character’s profession adds an aura of titillation to the movie. But “The Girlfriend Experience” is less interested in sex than in money which is shown to be a far more powerful and dangerous source of obsession confusion passion and calculation. The movie follows Chelsea from one encounter to the next and most of those that are not on the clock might be characterized as business meetings and strategy sessions." like Jean-Luc Godard in the second half of the 1960s is less concerned here with finish or coherence than with an authentic on-the-fly recording of a moment and right now that moment — the weeks just before the last presidential election when the financial system was in midcalamity — is at once too close and too emphatically in the past for it to make a lot of sense. But when the turmoil of the last  12 months has receded and the  10th-anniversary deluxe collectors edition comes around this strange numb cinematic experience may seem fresh shocking and poignant rather than merely and depressingly true." the main character — more case study than heroine —  is not only a consumer of top-of-the line merchandise keeping a careful ledger of the clothes and accessories she has purchased and worn. She is also a commodity in this rarefied market a prostitute whose specialty is alluded to in the title of the movie. She offers her rich clients more than sex with an obliging pretty young woman. Sometimes there is no sex at all as when one of them is especially anxious about the collapsing financial system. What she sells instead or in addition is a simulation of intimacy." Peter Andrews; edited by Mary Ann Bernard; music by Ross Godfrey; art director Carlos Moore; produced by Gregory Jacobs; released by Magnolia Pictures. In Manhattan at the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 16 minutes." Chris Santos (Chris) Philip Eytan (Philip) Glenn Kenny (Erotic Connoisseur) Timothy Davis (Tim) David Levien (David) and Mark Jacobson (Interviewer)." 
6428
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/22/movies/22flic.html
the decidedly un-macho son (Brennan Hillard) of the basketball coach at Music High School where much of the movie takes place flounces happily into the street trailed by admiring fellow students as he crows a version of “Fame” whose title exclamation has been changed to “Gay!”" Craig Wayans (Truck) Shoshana Bush (Megan) Essence Atkins (Charity) David Alan Grier (Sugar Bear) Brennan Hillard (Jack) Amy Sedaris (Teacher) Marlon Wayans (Mr. Moody) Shawn Wayans (Baby Daddy) and Affion Crockett (A-Con)." although familiarity is not required. Besides “Dreamgirls” and “High School Musical ” references include “Flashdance ” “Step Up ” “Save the Last Dance ” “You Got Served ” “Stomp the Yard ” “Black Snake Moan ” “Twilight ” “Hairspray” and Heather Mills in “Dancing With the Stars.”" Sugar Bear spends his days stuffing his face with Krispy Kreme doughnuts and pumpkin pie a package of sugar by his side. Mr. Grier ultimately steals the movie with a tour-de-force parody of “And I Am Telling You I’m Not Going ” from “Dreamgirls ”  in which “You’re gonna love me” becomes “You’re gonna feed me.”" Shawn Wayans Marlon Wayans Craig Wayans and Damien Dante Wayans; director of photography Mark Irwin; edited by Scott Hill; music by Erik Willis and Dwayne Wayans; choreography by Dave Scott; production designer Aaron Osborne; produced by Keenen Ivory Wayans Shawn Wayans Marlon Wayans and Rick Alvarez; released by Paramount Pictures and MTV Films. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes." “Dance Flick” exhales the rank humidity accumulated in a climate of obsessive caution. Its belly laughs leave you feeling liberated and not guilty; I repeat not guilty." it is very careful to stay within limits. (A parody of “Dirty Dancing” was scrapped for being too dirty.)" Megan (Shoshana Bush) a ferociously ambitious ballet hopeful are interrupted by a car crash that kills her mother on the way to a Juilliard audition. Even this tragedy (which is later re-enacted as a comic ballet) is played for laughs as rescue workers ignore the mother trapped under the vehicle and greedily scoop up leaking gasoline." established in the first two “Scary Movies ” relies on the density of jokes that push the acceptable bounds of taste to keep the comedy aloft. A free-for-all of  gross-out humor “Dance Flick” lets racial and sexual jokes fly. Amy Sedaris is especially funny as the school’s tart-tongued dance teacher who has a prominent anatomical abnormality. The drama teacher Mr. Moody (Marlon Wayans) teaches his male acting students to react by punching them hard in the face or kissing them full on the mouth." writhing to Rick James’s “Super Freak ” which is not exactly what the judges had expected. She eventually lands in Music High School where she is befriended by Charity (Essence Atkins) a single mother who blithely stashes her infant in her locker during school hours. The child’s father Baby Daddy (Shawn Wayans) appears now and then and generously provides a snapshot of himself so his son can see his face every morning. Megan begins a fraught romance with Charity’s brother Thomas (Damon Wayans Jr.) a leader of a dance crew that is in debt to the villainous Sugar Bear." ” the Wayans family’s explosively funny spoof. Bouncing on the dance floor like a lead balloon this heaving blob of a character known as Sugar Bear opens a gaping fissure with each collision and ends up squashing a bystander flatter than a pancake." “Dance Flick ” directed by Damien Dante Wayans from a screenplay he wrote with four other members of the Wayans clan (Keenen Ivory Shawn Marlon and Craig) pieces together a ridiculous generic story. Like every other Wayans family farce it has a 10-second attention span." 
6429
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/21/movies/21term.html
one of Connor’s lieutenants and a character who pays homage to Ms. Hamilton’s pioneering action-heroine achievements. (Bryce Dallas Howard as Connor’s pregnant wife upholds the maternal side of the original Sarah Connor legacy.)" Shane Hurlbut; edited by Conrad Buff; music by Danny Elfman; production designer Martin Laing; produced by Moritz Borman Jeffrey Silver Victor Kubicek and Derek Anderson; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." that’s a bit grandiose. Given the quantities of distressed metal on display in this sturdy and serviceable sequel — only the fourth “Terminator” movie in a quarter-century — “Terminator Salvage” might be a more apt title. Still some things are saved even redeemed in the course of the movie including perhaps the audience’s interest in killer cyborgs from the future and the fate of the Connor family." directed by McG (yes him the one-named auteur at the helm of the “Charlie’s Angels” pictures) from a script by John Brancato and Michael Ferris has a brute integrity lacking in some of the other seasonal franchise movies. It parades neither the egghead aspirations of “Star Trek” nor the thick-skulled pretensions of “X-Men Origins: Wolverine ” but instead feels both comfortable with its limitations and justly proud of its accomplishments." way back in 1984 a mean and muscular killing machine the T-800 showed up in Los Angeles spouting Austrian-accented catchphrases and trying to kill Sarah Connor who was played by Linda Hamilton. Some of us still harbor fond memories of Ms. Hamilton’s way with a pump-action shotgun and miss her all the more when her voice is heard on old tape recordings in the new movie from which she is otherwise absent." “Terminator Salvation” plants itself firmly in an apocalyptic future the terrible year 2018. The death-row inmate Marcus Wright (Sam Worthington) pops up for reasons that will become obvious to you long before they are revealed to him. He runs into various ragged resistance fighters significantly including Kyle Reese (Anton Yelchin) who will go back in time to become John Connor’s dad." but “Terminator Salvation” seems more like a throwback than a harbinger of things to come. Especially toward the end some shiny floating video screens appear but for the most part the aesthetic is mechanical rather than digital. With its clanks and creaks and broken-down contraptions this movie is a battered Wall-E to “Star Trek’s” sleek and seamless Eve." coarsened by dust and rust and occasionally illuminated by a bright orange fireball. And the action in spite of some aerial special effects and a few high-tech battles is accordingly loud and blunt a symphony of screaming gears anguished torque and thumping collisions of metal and flesh. As the floor of the screening room rumbled and the walls seemed to shake I began to wonder if Skynet were not a subsidiary of the Dolby Laboratories softening up a few human targets before the big battle." the self-updating allegory of technological anxiety “The Sarah Connor Chronicles” on television or the complex development of a malignant military application called Skynet. Since the last installment “Rise of the Machines ” a fairly pedestrian action film released in 2003 Skynet having become “self-aware” (more perhaps than the films themselves) unleashed a nuclear holocaust and now wants to wipe out the resistance and the rest of humanity along with it. Eventually it will master time travel but that will be in a future sequel which makes the current one an act of extortion by Warner Brothers. If not enough people buy tickets to “Terminator Salvation ” we may never find out just how Arnold Schwarzenegger arrived in California." and devoted himself to protecting Sarah’s son John (Edward Furlong at the time) from another killer android who was determined to prevent young John from growing into a leader of the anti-machine guerrilla resistance. But John survived grew into Nick Stahl and has now matured into Bruce Wayne — I mean Christian Bale all grizzled cheekbones and frayed vocal cords — while the original T-800 runs the State of California." since part of the point of the Terminator movies is to register ambivalence about technological progress which fills our lives with all kinds of cool convenient stuff that somehow brings an intimation of our eventual obsolescence. “Terminator Salvation ” digitally engineered to approximate a rough analog feel is less a cautionary tale than a consumer advisory. Enjoy your new gadgets but don’t let them out of your sight and don’t forget where the off switch is." Sam Worthington (Marcus Wright) Anton Yelchin (Kyle Reese) Moon Bloodgood (Blair Williams) Bryce Dallas Howard (Kate Connor) Helena Bonham Carter (Dr. Serena Kogan) Common (Barnes) Jane Alexander (Virginia) and Jadagrace Berry (Star)." reasonably swift storytelling — the movie less than two hours long is densely populated with semi-important characters and crammed with exposition and incident but it rarely feels busy or talky — and a mastery of the vernacular of chases fights explosions and crashes. McG may not yet have a signature style — he lacks the baroque vulgarity of Michael Bay (“Pearl Harbor” and “Transformers”) or the punchy inventiveness of Brett Ratner (the “Rush Hour” movies and “X-Men: The Last Stand”) — but he manages speed impact and the choreography of technomayhem with aplomb and a measure of wit." 
6430
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/20/movies/20burm.html
a Danish filmmaker this documentary is largely a collage of those clandestine videos recorded in August and September 2007 and narrated by a Burmese pro-democracy activist known as Joshua whose face and identity are shrouded for his own protection. Joshua and his colleagues are haunted by memories of the early 1990s when the military junta known as Slorc (an acronym for the State Law and Order Restoration Council) responded to its electoral defeat by Aung San Suu Kyi by cracking down ruthlessly on the citizens of the country that nearly everyone in this film pointedly calls Burma rather than the new name imposed on it by Slorc." thought-provoking film not only because of the story it tells which is by turns inspiring and devastatingly sad but also because of the perspective it offers on the role that new communications technologies can play in political change. The viral videos of the Democratic Voice of Burma are like the hidden printing presses of earlier underground revolutionary movements except that the portability of the cameras and the ease of Web and satellite-based distribution make them harder to suppress." Simon Plum and Burmese video journalists; edited by Janus Billeskov Jansen and Thomas Papapetros; music by Conny Malmqvist; produced by Lise Lense-Moller; released by Oscilloscope Laboratories and HBO Documentary Films. At  Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. In English and Burmese with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." Joshua hopes the result will be different. He is part of the Democratic Voice of Burma a network of journalists who discreetly gathered information about Burmese life by interviewing ordinary people and recording their everyday activities. When small apparently spontaneous demonstrations begin in the capital the group’s cameras are there to witness the events and as video circulates at home and abroad the gatherings grow bigger and bolder." the denouement shows that old-fashioned police-state repression can still overpower a rebellion fueled by new media. The cameras are on hand to record the eventual crackdown in horrific detail  there is something indelibly and uniquely appalling about the sight of soldiers firing on crowds of their fellow citizens  but they cannot alter the terrible course of events. And so the narrative of “Burma VJ” takes on a somber elegiac cast as the potential for freedom flares up and is in short order snuffed out." of course as a glance at recent headlines suggests. The cruelty and paranoia of the Myanmar government may yet be overcome by the patience and resilience of people like the brave and anonymous monks students and office workers glimpsed in “Burma VJ.” But while the film refuses despair it also declines to traffic in hopes that may prove once again illusory. Instead it tries with a fascinating mixture of directness and sophistication to tell the truth." captured with video cameras small enough to be quickly concealed in circumstances of danger and chaos. The lack of cinematic polish emphasizes the urgency of these pictures and the bravery of the anonymous camera operators  “VJ” stands for “video journalists”  who risked their safety their freedom and their lives to record popular protests against the military government of Myanmar and the regime’s brutal response." Joshua flees to Thailand where via cellphone and Internet he receives firsthand reports and raw footage of a rapidly escalating movement. Myanmar’s normally quiescent Buddhist monks emerge as the symbolic and strategic linchpin of anti-government activity and images of their defiance spread around the world in spite of the government’s ban on foreign journalists." 
6431
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/15/movies/15hour.html
Frédéric (Charles Berling) wants to keep everything as it is so that the next generation can gather at the old place and appreciate Grandma’s stuff. But  Frédéric’s sister Adrienne (Juliette Binoche) and their younger brother Jérémie (Jérémie Renier) who live abroad (she in the  United States he in China with his wife and three children) would rather sell the house and most of what is in it donating the best of the paintings pieces of furniture and sundry knickknacks to the Musée d’Orsay." in part a meditation on the changes that globalization has wrought on this legacy. Jérémie’s job with a sneaker company is lucrative and fulfilling enough to keep him in Asia for the foreseeable future and Adrienne though she disapproves of his corporate career is similarly enmeshed in the transnational economy. Frédéric an economist no doubt understands the forces that keep his brother and sister far from home and is in any case powerless to challenge them." whose sometimes prickly individuality is incarnated by a flawless cast. (Ms. Binoche as she did in Hou Hsiao-hsien’s “Flight of the Red Balloon ” seems to relish bringing her natural grace to the role of a  difficult and abrasive person)." almost banal sense Olivier Assayas’s “Summer Hours” is a movie about an inheritance. Hélène Berthier (Edith Scob) a silver-haired matriarch enthroned among her children and grandchildren at the beginning of the film leaves behind a charming country house and a cherished art collection and her heirs as is normal must figure out what to do with it all after her death." Eric Gautier; edited by Luc Barnier; produced by Marin Karmitz Nathanaël Karmitz and Charles Gillibert; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village and at Lincoln Plaza Cinemas 30 Lincoln Plaza at Broadway between 62nd and 63rd. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." Adrienne a designer whose tastes are generally more modern than her mother’s remarks that such distinctions don’t matter in the end that beauty is beauty an inherent intuitively recognizable quality that transcends periods or styles. And while Mr. Assayas’s filmmaking techniques are identifiably of the moment — and his sensibility is as thoroughly French as the long painstakingly prepared family meals that punctuate “Summer Hours” — the assurance and aesthetic poise of the film make it quietly ravishing." we meet Hélène and her family and learn something about her devotion to her uncle a noted painter named Paul. We also witness Frédéric’s anxious reaction to his mother’s intimations of mortality. In the hectic comings and goings of a summer afternoon —  the peculiar busyness of a family in repose —  we can see the tensions and alliances in her scattered brood whose love is nonetheless equally evident." Charles Berling (Frédéric) Jérémie Renier (Jérémie) Edith Scob (Hélène) Dominique Reymond (Lisa) and Valérie Bonneton (Angela)." ” even though the high points of its action (the big scene is a visit to Hélène’s house by a group of appraisers) sound singularly tedious. It is arranged in three parts — panels almost in a triptych on the topic of mutability — followed by a brief coda." who has worked frequently with Mr. Assayas as well as among many others with Sean Penn on “Into the Wild”) seems less like a mechanical apparatus than an organ of perception even of consciousness. Its movements mimic those of a person’s attention at times restlessly trying to gather information from all directions at times observing with serene and sympathetic concentration occasionally puzzled but never bored." which are always in flux even as they offer an image of stability and continuity to the world but of societies and nations as well and “Summer Hours” is in its understated way as much about France as it is about Hélène and her children. Her property ends up in the museum because it is part of a cultural patrimony each piece an emblem of a tradition that is worldly and cosmopolitan but also rooted in rich local soil." Adrienne and Jérémie are all there and they gather again in the wake of Hélène’s death to negotiate the fate of her property. Life will go on with an acknowledgment of loss that will always seem insufficient. A precious piece of furniture that finds a home in a museum is also in a state of exile just as members of a family once the older generation is gone are both set free and set adrift." Mr. Assayas contemplates a pair of paintings by Camille Corot (Frédéric’s favorites which don’t much impress his teenage children); a panel by Odilon Redon; and a desk armoire and several vases of similarly notable pedigree. (Most of the treasures that appear in the film are authentic having been lent to the filmmaker by the real museum to which they are donated by his fictional characters.)" but rather to ponder how and why they arouse such strong feelings how they function both as cultural artifacts and private totems. Hélène who is deeply attached to her collection nonetheless anticipates its dispersal explaining to Frédéric that in spite of their preciousness the things in her house are a “residue” of life without a life of their own. Frédéric nonetheless dreams of holding on to it all for at least one more generation but the film’s clearest and most poignant insight is that this longing which is essentially to stop time can never be fulfilled." obliquely and overtly in films like “Irma Vep ” “Demonlover” and “Boarding Gate ” but “Summer Hours ” as calm and quiet as its title is in some ways his most coherent and complex exploration of the current shape of the world. Don’t be fooled by the apparent modesty of its ambitions. Sometimes a small homely object — a teapot a writing desk a sketchbook a movie about such things — turns out to be a masterpiece." in a nutshell is the dramatic arc of this extraordinary film which in spite of its modest scale tactful manner and potentially dowdy subject matter is packed nearly to bursting with rich meaning and deep implication. And this is only fitting since one of Mr. Assayas’s themes is the way that inanimate things accrue value sentimental and otherwise — the curious alchemy that transforms certain objects into art." 
6432
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/15/movies/15bigm.html
Riki Takeuchi (Hanerunojyuu) Ua (Manager Kobori) Ryunosuke Kamiki (Dounojyuu) and Itsuji Itao (Female Niounojyuu)." Hideo Yamamoto; music by Towa Tei; production designers Yuji Hayashida and Etsuko Aikou; produced by Akihiko Okamoto; released by Magnet Releasing. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. In Japanese with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." a tour de force of comedic concision in a movie bloated by increasingly surreal developments." his ratings are down. Part character study part media  satire and by its finale altogether bizarre “Big Man Japan” plays a bit like a quieter weirder version of “Hancock.”" via the application of electricity to his nipples (and some third-rate computer graphics) into a lumbering giant with an “Eraserhead” hairdo. But his everyday life couldn’t be smaller. Recently separated from his wife Daisato mopes in the company of a scene-stealing stray cat despondent over his nation’s increasing annoyance with the destruction and wanton wasting of resources that he leaves in his wake." ” a deadpan mockumentary with a lively sense of the perverse. Hitoshi Matsumoto a popular and eccentric Japanese comedian who is the co-writer of the film also directed and stars in it playing Daisato the latest — and least — in a line of metamorphic heroes who grapple with Japan’s persistent monster problem." slumping on a park bench — and his battles with threats like an eyeball-throwing monster and a creature emitting dangerously foul odors." 
6433
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/15/movies/15jeri.html
in some ways a purely functional figure in the narrative —  both the heavy and the patsy the target of betrayal and vengeance the obstacle to the romantic fulfillment of the adulterous couple — he also turns out to be the most interesting and complicated character. A sharp sometimes brutal businessman he shows an odd mixture of guile and helplessness his need for control weakened by sexual jealousy a fondness for vodka and a disarming tendency toward self-pity." vain and sometimes violent. But the alliance that Thomas and Laura — perfect if somewhat battered specimens of the fair-skinned muscular Teutonic  ideal — form against him has a queasy undercurrent of xenophobic payback." which gives the film a detached clinical feeling underlined by the director’s habit of observing emotions rather than evoking them. Mr. Fürmann and Ms. Hoss even when gripped by sexual fervor display a reticence that blunts the force of the story and makes their turn from adultery toward more serious and criminal transgressions seem dumb rather than passionately reckless. And the reversals and revelations that conclude the story are a bit too neat and clever to resonate much past the final credits." Nina Hoss (Laura) Hilmi Sözer (Ali) André M. Hennicke (Leon) Claudia Geisler (Administrator) Marie Gruber (Cashier) and Knut Berger (Policeman)." ” he says to Thomas at one point exposing the emptiness and alienation beneath his  success. A Turkish immigrant who has spent virtually his entire life in Germany he is despite his wealth and the veneer of swaggering confidence he likes to project a permanent outsider and potential scapegoat." a sullen former soldier who served in Afghanistan before receiving a dishonorable discharge finds work harvesting cucumbers before fate takes him to Ali (Hilmi Sözer) a prosperous entrepreneur with a chain of snack bars and of course a bored beautiful wife (Nina Hoss who played the title role in “Yella”). Her name is Laura and Mr. Petzold delays ignition of the inevitable spark between her and Thomas so that Thomas (and the audience) can get to know Ali a bit better." whose previous films include “Yella ” a  prizewinner in Germany in 2007 respects the lean and pulpy genre requirements of the story and does not burden it with self-conscious artiness or metaphor mongering. The plot is simple with just enough kinks and coincidences to keep the audience  a little off balance as we await the dreadful developments that seem to be lurking around every corner." the rugged stranger is not thriving. After burying his mother he returns to his childhood home where he plans to live. But a loan shark takes the money Thomas has stashed in a tree house and leaves him lying unconscious on the lawn." a sense of desperation and defeat that seems less like a generic convention than like a genuine insight an intuition into what can happen at the crossroads of lust loneliness and materialism." Hans Fromm; edited by Bettina Böhler; music by Stefan Will; production designer K. D. Gruber; produced by Florian Koerner von Gustorf and Michael Weber; released by Cinema Guild. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Sixth Avenue West Village. In German with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." ” a compact and somber movie by the German director Christian Petzold proves that in film as in engineering the triangle is the strongest and most efficient structural principle. In essence a variation on “The Postman Always Rings Twice ” James M. Cain’s infinitely adaptable tale of lust envy and deceit “Jerichow” arranges its three main characters in a familiar pattern. There is a rich guy; his bored beautiful blond wife; and a rugged stranger down on his luck and ready for action. What more do you need?" though certain details hovering near the edges of the drama hint at an intriguing subtext. While they are too needy greedy and confused to be allegorical figures the rich man his wife and the stranger nonetheless act out a grim little fable of social relations in modern Germany. The town that gives the movie its name is a nondescript spot in the former  East Germany where a road still bears the name of Friedrich Engels and where capitalism still has a somewhat primitive half-criminal feel." 
6434
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/15/movies/15mana.html
she subtly conveys the loneliness and insecurity beneath Sue’s brusque self-contained facade." Sue finally allows Mike to put his hand on her behind. A spark is struck and just before returning to her home in Baltimore she initiates an afternoon fling in the laundry room. Then she leaves Arizona without a second thought. Mike of course is besotted." “The Graduate ” and smart American road-trip comedies like “Flirting With Disaster” and “Little Miss Sunshine.” If it isn’t half as good — or as funny — as its forerunners it maintains its integrity as a small sweet-natured comedy that refuses to obey the commercial dictates of Hollywood by allowing its characters to determine their own zany destinies." that  lives can have second and third acts that losers can shake off defeat. Through his misadventures  Mike metamorphoses from superannuated boy into likable grown-up with his endearing childlike traits intact." Steve Zahn (Mike) Woody Harrelson (Jango) Fred Ward (Jerry) Margo Martindale (Trish) and James Liao (Al)." New Jersey and Connecticut." Eric Edwards; edited by Kate Sanford; produced by Wyck Godfrey Marty Bowen and Sidney Kimmel; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." Mike talks his way into a job in a Chinese restaurant where he meets his new best friend Al (James Liao) a fellow employee whom he enlists in a vaguely creepy surveillance operation at Jango’s estate. Mike is so fixated on Sue that he skydives out of a plane into Jango’s swimming pool. Here is where “Management” turns into a screwball farce: it temporarily loses its bearings when it follows Mike into a Buddhist monastery for a period of reflection." the Kingman Motor Inn the Arizona hostelry in which Stephen Belber’s off-kilter romantic comedy “Management” sputters to a start is a gateway to damnation. This anonymous sunbaked depot is where 38-year-old Mike Cranshaw (Steve Zahn) works as the night manager repairing backed-up toilets and discharging other odd jobs under the watchful eyes of his parents Jerry (Fred Ward) and Trish (Margo Martindale) who own the place." Mike spends his last dime on a one-way ticket to Baltimore. Sue has to pay his way back to Arizona. Eventually however his route to salvation carries him to Aberdeen Wash. where Sue has gone to live with Jango a former punk-rocker turned organic-yogurt mogul played by  Woody Harrelson as a fire-breathing wild-eyed maniac." not-so-glamorous man who forges a pathway out of hell after being struck by romantic lightning. Mike may be a bumbling sad sack but Mr. Zahn gives him just enough spunky appeal to lend this unlikely fly-by-afternoon coupling  and its consequences a shred of credibility." Sue Claussen (Jennifer Aniston) who sells the kind of sterile corporate art found on motel walls checks in for a short stay. With stalkerlike persistence the pesky Mike courts her with a bottle of wine “compliments of management ” which he insists they drink together followed later by cheap champagne." 
6435
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/15/movies/15call.html
grandfatherly narrator whose voice booming intermittently over the soundtrack propels the story forward informs us that as a boy Jamie watched “Strictly Ballroom” 97 times. He dreamed of becoming a salsa dancer but was shamed out of it by his father Rudy (Robert Costanzo) a boorish poker-playing slob who cracks feng shui jokes about the arrangement of his lawn furniture." and it is easy to empathize with Mr. Rhein’s Lonely Guy in the City. But this minuscule indie variation of “Saturday Night Fever” moves only in fits and starts. When it ends on a cautiously upbeat note you feel that you have seen just the stumbling first act of an unfinished drama." his heart broken by a party-loving Dominican woman who drops him after his old-fashioned courtship proceeds at a snail’s pace Jamie is forced to move in with his estranged older sister Lianne (Ms. Rhein). As alienated in her own way as Jamie she regales him with tough self-help bromides and inspirational gobbledygook in which God is “the big shot-caller.” Jamie convinces Lianne to be his salsa dancing partner and together they venture into the night." ” David Rhein the younger brother of the movie’s writer and director Marlene Rhein plays Jamie a shy friendless accountant living in Manhattan. Jamie suffers from an ocular disorder that renders him severely nearsighted; a symptom is the way his eyes continually dart from side to side like those of a hunted animal. Security guards patrolling the entrances to nightclubs he visits hoping to meet girls and indulge his passion for salsa dancing assume that he must be high and refuse to admit him." 
6436
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/15/movies/15bloo.html
and the guessing games go on until the last second." when all is said and done that’s all it is: a fancy not-quite-two-hour stunt." “The Brothers Bloom” acquires some effervescence. Penelope’s talent for learning new skills is shown in an early montage in which she demonstrates her mastery of a circus’s worth of weird hobbies." Bloom falls in love with her but the affair has little traction. It all builds up to an anticlimactic “is it real or is it fake?” finale in which Stephen may have met his match in treachery." St. Petersburg and Montenegro. Beyond that your response to the movie which takes too conspicuous a delight in its own cleverness is likely to be a shrug and a “so what?” Like those airborne pins “The Brothers Bloom” never lands." serious filmmaking with manipulating genres and copping attitudes. The flourishing of all that talent is exciting as far as it goes. But it is only a first step in turning movies into art." Mr. Brody projects the soulful anxiety of a man who after 25 years of being a willing collaborator in his brother’s scams longs to live an unscripted life. Their story is introduced with a facetiously flowery narration by Ricky Jay describing how the brothers were shuttled from foster home to foster home. An early con game in which they collect $2 from their schoolmates is shown." the eternally naughty boys suckering marks in a life of never-ending adventure are played by Mark Ruffalo and Adrien Brody.  Mr. Ruffalo plays the older brother and the team’s conceptual maestro Stephen who plots each scam like a novel in which his younger sibling identified only as Bloom (Mr. Brody) is cast as the protagonist." unnecessarily complicating matters are Diamond Dog (Maximilian Schell) the brothers’ double-dealing mentor in con artistry and the Curator (Robbie Coltrane) a smuggler of Belgian antiques." “Brick ” a film noir spoof set in a contemporary high school announced the arrival of a director with a prodigious knowledge of film genres and a visual flair to match. But emotionally there was no there there. Flashier and glossier “The Brothers Bloom” is a sideways move into a related genre: the more vacuous realm of the “Ocean’s Eleven” movies and their ilk. Rather like an Indiana Jones film “The Brothers Bloom” layers movie styles from noir to adventure serial to screwball comedy to conjure a timeless present." Steven Yedlin; edited by Gabriel Wrye; music by Nathan Johnson; production designer Jim Clay; produced by Ram Bergman James D. Stern and Wendy Japhet; released by Summit Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." smuggling and resale of a priceless antiquarian book Penelope emerges from her shell. Accompanying them on their international jaunt is a mute sidekick Bang Bang (Rinko Kikuchi from “Babel”) who is an expert in explosives." Adrien Brody (Bloom) Mark Ruffalo (Stephen) Rinko Kikuchi (Bang Bang) Maximilian Schell (Diamond Dog) Robbie Coltrane (the Curator) and Ricky Jay (Narrator)." when Stephen prevails upon a reluctant Bloom to join in his ultimate con: the fleecing of Penelope (Rachel Weisz) a wealthy eccentric New Jersey heiress who lives like a hermit in her castle. Penelope who suggests an artier descendant of Ms. Weisz’s character in the first two “Mummy” movies embraces con artistry with a fearless zest." 
6437
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/15/movies/15ange.html
those sensuous Bernini sculptures and soundless library stacks —  nearly steal the movie from the bland dogged heroes. Luckily an international squad of potential villains and victims — you’ll figure out who is which soon enough since Mr. Brown tends to let the wiring show when he rigs his surprise twists — has already carried out the larceny." ” an erstwhile nemesis says to Langdon near the end “and you will write about us do so gently.” It was as if he were looking right into my soul. And how could I refuse such a humble earnest petition? Go in peace." his face stroboscopically snapping from wry smirk to worried squint and back again Langdon is something of a cipher in his own right a walking embodiment of skeptical intellect who seems most of the time not to have a thought in his head. Once again Mr. Hanks is accompanied by a ravishing international movie star in this case the Israeli actress Ayelet Zurer (“Munich ” “Vantage Point”).  She plays Vittoria Vetra an Italian scientist —  specializing in “bioentanglement physics” — whose role is to serve not as a romantic foil for the sexless professor but rather as his sidekick sleuth and fellow panelist in a high-velocity interdisciplinary seminar." and is festooned with the rites and ornaments of Roman Catholicism I might as well begin with a confession. I have not read the novel by Dan Brown on which this film (directed like its predecessor “The Da Vinci Code ” by Ron Howard) is based. I have come to believe that to do so would be a sin against my faith not in the Church of Rome but in the English language a noble and beleaguered institution against which Mr. Brown practices vile and unspeakable blasphemy." the Vatican newspaper has found nothing worthy of rebuke and who can quarrel with that judgment? In the busy bloody course of the picture a few hot topical buttons are gently grazed but in the end (sorry if I’m spoiling anything) “Angels  & Demons” boldly insists that science and religion must coexist an empirical observation elevated to a statement of principle. Both the persecution of Galileo by the  17th-century church and the more recent (apparently fictional) practice of murdering priests in popular tourist locations in the name of reason are roundly condemned." or at least mitigated by the twinkling nonsense of  Ian McKellen so is “Angels  & Demons” kicked into something like life by the histrionic professionalism of Armin Mueller-Stahl Stellan Skarsgard and Ewan McGregor. The three of them are players in a Vatican power struggle that takes shape after the death of a beloved  pope." based on the novel by Dan Brown; director of photography Salvatore Totino; edited by Dan Hanley and Mike Hill; music by Hans Zimmer; production designer Allan Cameron; produced by Brian Grazer Mr. Howard and John Calley; released by Columbia Pictures and Imagine Entertainment. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes." half buttressed by real historical information half floating in the ether of cocktail party nonsense seems to be a crucial feature of a Robert Langdon adventure and you can only be charmed when the symbologist says things like: “An obelisk! A kind of pyramid adopted by the Illuminati! If he’s going to kill he’ll do it here.”" and in trying to find them and prevent Vatican City from being blasted into oblivion Langdon and  Vittoria  find themselves  in a mare’s nest of hidden agendas and competing jurisdictions. Mr. Skarsgard commander of the Swiss Guards and Mr. Mueller-Stahl a powerful  cardinal are obvious heavies while Mr. McGregor has a fine time playing a wide-eyed Irish Obi-Wan with a wee bit of a  messiah complex." and Columbia  Pictures  has not been accused of falsifying the history or corrupting the morals of Western civilization." perhaps because I chose to remain innocent of the book that I was able to enjoy “Angels  & Demons” more than “The Da Vinci Code ” which opened almost exactly three years ago to an international critical hissy fit and global box office rapture. (The novel “Angels & Demons “was published three years before “The Da Vinci Code.”)" and in the spirit of compassion I suppose I’d be inclined to go with the second option. The movie all but begs for such treatment." without being particularly good is nonetheless far less hysterical than “Da Vinci.” Its preposterous narrative efficiently rendered by the blue-chip screenwriting team of Akiva Goldsman and David Koepp unfolds with the locomotive elegance of a Tintin comic or an episode of “Murder She Wrote.” Mr. Howard’s direction combines the visual charm of mass-produced postcards with the mental stimulation of an easy Monday crossword puzzle. It could be worse." the Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon. Langdon no favorite of the Holy See and long denied access to the Vatican archives is summoned to Rome to assess and then defuse a deadly threat involving antimatter papal succession and the ancient pro-science terrorist underground known as the Illuminati. You didn’t suspect the Illuminati? Nobody suspects the Illuminati. Except Robert Langdon of course." Mr. Howard and his team have deftly blended actual Roman locations with Hollywood stage sets and C.G.I. confections to make a dreamy ephemeral Eternal City." Ewan McGregor (Camerlengo Patrick McKenna) Ayelet Zurer (Dr. Vittoria Vetra) Stellan Skarsgard (Commander Richter) Pierfrancesco Favino (Inspector Ernesto Olivetti) Nikolaj Lie Kaas (Assassin/Mr. Gray) and Armin Mueller-Stahl (Cardinal Strauss)." 
6438
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/15/movies/15anag.html
on being handed a pair of 3-D glasses for a screening of “Anaglyph Tom ” I braced myself for the potential explosion of my eyeballs. (Like a number of Mr. Jacobs’s works the film is preceded by a warning to epileptics.)" Mr. Jacobs has in recent years been refining a repertory of techniques that result in amazing optical effects. His previous feature the aptly named “Razzle Dazzle ” climaxed in a montage of vintage photographs subjected to stroboscopic editing that made them dance in the picture frame with remarkable vivacity." Tom the Piper’s Son.” The tools have changed  —  Mr. Jacobs created the video entirely on a Macintosh using Final Cut Pro and Photoshop  —  but the basic strategy and the source material are the same. The Biograph actors and sets are turned inside out as Mr. Jacobs zooms in out and all around the images slicing them off into new frames layering them onto monochromatic frames or sending them twirling off into space." in which a painted plastic cell and sometimes objects are manipulated along with the projector’s mechanisms Mr. Jacobs conjures otherworldly abstractions whose vertiginous depth of field makes  “Monsters vs. Aliens” in 3-D look as flat as an episode of “South Park.”" a vaudeville variation on the nursery rhyme “Tom Tom the Piper’s Son.” In 1969 Mr. Jacobs  rephotographed the Biograph short using an optical printer radically extending recutting and rescaling it into a feature-length fantasia that became a linchpin of the structuralist film movement." his work is usually moored to a historical or political theme. “Razzle Dazzle” was unmistakably a work of art made during and addressed to a time of war and technological anxiety. “Anaglyph Tom” finds Mr. Jacobs confronting our uncertain economic era." as opposed to creating any particular spatial effect. During the second hour I removed  the glasses for periods without noting any appreciable difference in the experience." Billy Bitzer. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes. This film is not rated." ” and it doesn’t come close to rivaling the groundbreaking vision of “Tom Tom the Piper’s Son.” But even the least of Mr. Jacobs’s efforts illuminate a rare imagination — or what Mr. Greenspan calls an ideology: “a conceptual framework with the way people deal with reality.”" somewhat redundantly as a 3-D movie by Ken Jacobs. Uh yeah and water is wet." and attenuated over the nearly two-hour running time is the actual “plot”: Tom the piper’s son steals a pig and runs away. Mr. Jacobs nudges us to pay attention by inserting two contemporary images: a scan of a newspaper story about plummeting financial markets and an extended clip from C-SPAN of Alan Greenspan’s infamous admission of a flaw in his own ideology." 
6439
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/13/movies/13bein.html
once for the depth and endurance of the scars. Robert Badinter a former French minister of justice who is Jewish reveals a lot about those scars when he shares his boyhood recollections of Marshal Pétain’s ignominious ascendance." ” which begins a one-week run on Wednesday at the Walter Reade Theater is more than three hours long and its emotional peak comes relatively early when the film revisits the deplorable treatment of France’s Jewish population immediately before and during the Vichy years." ” he recalls bitterly. “Pictures of Pétain everywhere. That bleating old man in every newsreel.”" at least to an American viewer like an undifferentiated grab-bag approach to the years since the war’s end. A dumb slur from a TV comedy or a poorly worded offhand remark by a politician gets roughly the same attention as a synagogue bombing as Mr. Jeuland brings his century-long survey up to the present." Jérôme Mignard and Christophe Petit; edited by Sylvie Bourget; music by Eric Slabiak; produced by Michel Rotman; released by the National Center for Jewish Film. At the Walter Reade Theater 165 West 65th Street Lincoln Center. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 3 hours 5 minutes. This film is not rated." amid much ugly debate a Jewish officer in the French military was convicted and later cleared of espionage) to recent anti-Semitism. It’s not entirely successful because of the frequent shifts in focus and scale but maybe that’s the overriding point: when a country goes through the experience of devouring its own as happened during the Vichy years everything for generations after is going to be seen through that prism." 
6440
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/13/movies/13revu.html
dismaying poetic and quaint “Revue” melds disparate images of Soviet life during the 1950s and ’60s into a luminous time capsule of patriotic fervor and political fealty." ” Nikita S. Khrushchev tells a rapt audience and his comrades seem to agree as we watch ancient bulldozers move earth for a dam and freezing fishermen drill cheerfully through a vast sheet of ice. In a textile mill girlish fingers fly over spinning bobbins of thread while a village choir rehearses an ode to planting. Even the criminal sentence for disturbing the peace — imposed by a “Comrades’ Court” — is to plant 50 saplings." as well as archival footage from newsreels and propaganda films the director Sergei Loznitsa assembles a black-and-white mosaic of hardship and hope." directed and edited by Sergei Loznitsa; produced by Heino Deckert; released by Icarus Films. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 12 minutes. This film is not rated." ” the movie’s bleak frosty landscapes and hungry callused workers suggest that finding something to laugh about was a great deal easier in fiction than in reality." 
6441
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08trek.html
which explains why the movie opens with a loud somewhat chaotic scene filled with fireballs airborne bodies heroically clenched male jaws and a squawking pregnant woman about to pop out the future James Tiberius Kirk. Born in space (well a shuttle craft) Kirk is destined to return to its embracing darkness. (Future “Trek” scholars will be working the Oedipal angle hard.) But this being an origin story first there’s a peek at a boy (Jimmy Bennett as the young Kirk) tearing down an Iowa highway in a stolen hot rod a paradigmatic character moment that’s juxtaposed with images of a young brainiac (Jacob Kogan as the wee Spock) problem-solving with intelligence and a few punches." the story has plenty of chatter but Mr. Abrams keeps the talk moving slowing down only intermittently as when Captain Pike (Bruce Greenwood) or the wryly smiling Leonard Nimoy (!) unload some paternalistic advice on Kirk. A television veteran (“Lost”) Mr. Abrams handles the action scenes better than he did in his only other big-screen outing (“Mission: Impossible III”) largely by not lavishing too much time on them. By far his finest moments take place on the brightly lighted deck of the Enterprise where against the backdrop of limitless space Kirk Spock and the rest of the young crew fumble with roles that — much like the young actors playing them including Anton Yelchin as Chekov and John Cho as Sulu — they ultimately and rather wonderfully make their own." the original “Star Trek” is a utopian fantasy of the first order a vision of the enlightened future in which whites blacks Asians and one poker-faced Vulcan are united by their exploratory mission (“to boldly go”) a prime directive (no intervention) and the occasional dust-up. An origin story directed with a sure touch and perfect tone by J. J. Abrams the fully loaded film — a showcase for big-studio hardware software muscled boys who can act and leggy girls who aren’t required to — turns back the narrative clock to the moment before the main characters first assembled on the deck of the U.S.S. Enterprise a sleek spacecraft that invariably sails into intergalactic storms. Even utopia needs a little bang." the flashing lasers and latex aliens “Star Trek” is fundamentally about two men engaged in a continuing conversation about civilizations and their discontents. Hot and cold impulsive and tightly controlled Kirk and Spock need each other to work a dynamic Mr. Abrams captures with his two well-balanced leads. Mr. Quinto lets you see and hear the struggle between the human and the Vulcan in Spock through the emotions that ripple across his face and periodically throw off his unmodulated phrasing. Mr. Pine has the harder job — he has to invoke Mr. Shatner’s sui generis performance while transcending its excesses — which makes his nuanced interpretation all the more potent. Steering clear of outright imitation the two instead distill the characters to capture their essence their Kirk-ness and Spock-ness." which in keeping with the show’s liberal leanings is in San Francisco. At school Kirk flirts with Uhura (Zoë Saldana) a hot number who coolly brushes him off and makes friends with a doctor Leonard McCoy a k a Bones (Karl Urban wild-eyed and funny). Kirk also comes smack up against Spock an officious instructor. In the tradition of many great romances the two men take almost an instant dislike to each other an antagonism that literalizes the Western divide between the mind (Spock) and body (Kirk) that gives the story emotional and dramatic force as well as some generous laughs." who at one point in television time used to look a lot like Spock but here resemble a Maori motorcycle gang complete with facial tattoos and Goth threads. Led by the glowering psychopath Nero (Eric Bana an actor who knows how to take villainy seriously) the Romulans are mainly on hand to provoke the Starfleet cadets into space. There Mr. Abrams shows off some expensive-looking special effects including an enemy warship that with its enormous grasping tendrils by turns resembles a monstrous jellyfish and a malignantly blooming flower. The film comes down on the side of hope but its apocalyptic interludes including the image of a planet imploding into gray dust collapsing like a desiccated piece of fruit linger." which would be deadly for everyone save the fanatics. But neither does he skewer a pop cultural classic that more than 40 years after its first run has been so lampooned (it feels like there are more “South Park” parodies than original episodes) it was difficult to see how he was going to give it new life. By design or accident he has simply because in its hopefulness “Star Trek” reminds you that there’s more to science fiction (and Hollywood blockbusters) than nihilism. Mr. Abrams doesn’t venture into politics as boldly as Mr. Roddenberry sometimes did though it’s worth noting he does equate torture with barbarism." shiny blast from a newly imagined past “Star Trek ” the latest spinoff from the influential television show isn’t just a pleasurable rethink of your geek uncle’s favorite science-fiction series. It’s also a testament to television’s power as mythmaker as a source for some of the fundamental stories we tell about ourselves who we are and where we came from. The famous captain (William Shatner bless his loony lights) and creator (Gene Roddenberry rest in peace) may no longer be on board but the spirit of adventure and embrace of rationality that define the show are in full swing as are the chicks in minis and kicky boots." 
6442
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08next.html
characters that pop a blaze of streetwise attitude and enough firepower to pulverize a significant chunk of South Philadelphia “Next Day Air” nears neo-blaxploitation perfection. Good things come in strange packages." Mike Epps (Brody) Wood Harris (Guch) Omari Hardwick (Shavoo) Darius McCrary (Buddy) Cisco Reyes (Jesus) Debbie Allen (Ms. Jackson) Emilio Rivera (Bodega Diablo) Yasmin Deliz (Chita) and Mos Def (Eric)." David Armstrong; edited by David Checel; music by the Elements; production designer Bruton Jones; produced by Scott Aronson and Inny Clemons; released by Summit Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." a feat of textural and structural inventiveness by Blair Cobbs sets in motion a complex underworld farce after a box of high-grade cocaine improbably shipped from Mexico through an overnight delivery service is dropped off at the wrong address in a ramshackle Philadelphia apartment building." thieves thugs drug dealers crackheads slackers prostitutes and a Mexican crime lord named Bodega Diablo (Emilio Rivera) it isn’t likely to be appreciated as one of the liveliest revivals of a dormant genre since “Unforgiven” woke the western." an established director of hip-hop music videos deftly coordinates a half-dozen intersecting plotlines played to the hilt by an inspired ensemble of character actors. Donald Faison Mike Epps Wood Harris Cisco Reyes Yasmin Deliz Omari Hardwick Darius McCrary and Mos Def inhabit their roles with distinct verbal and physical flair meshing with a rhythmic precision worthy of the Wu-Tang Clan in its heyday." “Next Day Air” riffs on the disreputable with respect." drug content some violence and brief sexuality." 
6443
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08juli.html
the crime and some motel scenes that follow are so tonally relentless so claustrophobic and harrowing that I found myself pushed right out of the movie. It was hard to get back in particularly after Julia runs over a guy  with a car not once but twice a scene that drives  the film dangerously toward self-parody. But Mr. Zonca whose best-known feature  is the 1998 drama “The Dreamlife of Angels ” pulls back from the edge just in time largely by channeling John Cassavetes’s “Gloria ” about another tough broad (Gena Rowlands who else?) on the lam with a kid. Ms. Swinton doesn’t have Ms. Rowlands’s tenderness but damn she has just about everything else you need or want." crawl stumble scurry fly like a bat out of this hell — Ms. Swinton does it all. She’s yelling with pleasure  in the first shot a gaudy image of her at a Los Angeles nightclub that Mr. Zonca frames from a slight remove so that the camera (and us along with it) has some distance from  her. She’s exquisite with long spidery eyelashes and a wide-open laugh. Everything looks different with the lights turned low and so does Julia as she gulps her drinks and finally gives the nod to a guy who cannot believe his luck. But that gulping mouth is more of a maw and in time the lights go up brutally. The next morning the glamour is smeared all over her face." Saul Rubinek (Mitch) Kate Del Castillo (Elena) Aidan Gould (Tom) Jude Ciccolella (Nick) and Bruno Bichir (Diego)." Yorick Le Saux; edited by Philippe Kotlarski; produced by François Marquis and Bertrand Faivre; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 18 minutes." so improbable and so appallingly messy that it actually registers as far more realistic than most movie crimes like one of those ghastly news stories about a crazy woman who runs off with someone else’s baby for love or money or just because she’s nuts. The smell of money seems to unhinge Julia who after a lifetime of self-destruction decides she deserves a break. (From what? Herself?) The kidnapping is a disaster horrible and difficult to watch  because it’s always difficult to watch  a child in distress and the young actor makes his character’s fear   palpable. It doesn’t help that Mr. Zonca is a  French filmmaker  — there isn’t a Hollywood beat in his storytelling —  which means that any bad thing could happen. That’s a joke but also true." “Julia” seems to be shaping up as a portrait of an alcoholic nearly scraping bottom. The early naturalistic scenes slip into one another seamlessly with no obvious dramatic arc which fits with a life that feels similarly unstructured. But the story shifts gears soon after the neighbor Elena (Kate Del Castillo) drags a passed-out Julia home one evening. The next morning Elena spins a wild tale. Her only son Tom (Aidan Gould) is being raised by his wealthy grandfather who refuses to let her visit the boy. But Elena has a plan and she claims money and will pay Julia to kidnap Tom whom she will then spirit off. Julia doesn’t just listen to Elena’s far-fetched scheme she also follows through on it." every morning is another ugly morning after. Not that she seems to notice or care. Her whole life is organized around booze about getting to that moment when she’s throwing another one back either alone or in a crowd it doesn’t matter. There’s no pride here no real friends save for the alcohol which is always there keeping her company. The one person in her life Mitch (Saul Rubinek) moons about trying to help keep her real-estate job (at the pointedly named Reality House) and goading her toward sobriety meetings she refuses to sit through. When a woman at one meeting introduces herself saying they’re neighbors Julia fires back “I’m not really down with the good neighbor” thing.  No kidding." “Julia ” a venture in extreme acting and audience provocation in which she plays an alcoholic child-snatcher when I wanted to split the theater.  Directed by Erick Zonca who seems to have signed a mutually assured destruction pact with his star pushing her toward an abyss both might have fallen into the film is a perverse blend of sadism (the director’s Julia’s) and masochism (ours Julia’s). But Ms. Swinton demands to be seen even when her character is on a self-annihilating bender so real that you can almost smell the stink rising off her. So I sat in my seat cursed the screen   and was grateful to watch an actress at the height of her expressive power claw toward greatness." and fewer still I suspect who have the guts to try. She’s a magnificent bold sometimes viscerally  uncomfortable screen presence with an otherworldly alabaster glow and a piercing gaze that seems to nail you to your seat. (She’s one of the few  performers who justifies that overworked critical superlative riveting.) When she’s on screen you don’t want to look anywhere even if the story is so bleak so utterly and overwhelmingly pitiless that you want to look anywhere but  at the screen at anyone but her." 
6444
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08ador.html
Scott Speedman (Tom) Rachel Blanchard (Rachel) Noam Jenkins (Sami) Devon Bostick (Simon) and Kenneth Welsh (Morris)." violin-soaked musical soundtrack by Mychael Danna. Its mood of sorrowful sensuality evokes the troubled histories of flesh-and-blood people whose complicated personal stories if we knew them might  or might  not provide reasons for heinous crimes against humanity." Jew and Muslim are never attached to the characters. Mr. Egoyan’s refusal to push those verbal buttons forces you to view the characters as human beings without labels and to draw your own conclusions about their cultural backgrounds." then takes it a step further and relates it via Webcam in Internet chat rooms where it kicks up a storm of debate among his peers and their parents." to watch the movie is to be caught up in a detective story that operates on several levels. Mr. Egoyan conveys a voluptuous slightly sinister apprehension of the material world in which people harbor secrets and blind rage can suddenly erupt in the most placid setting for no apparent reason. Here the possibility of violence rears up in a shabby restaurant when three people argue over a sandwich that has just been consumed." Paul Sarossy; edited by Susan Shipton; music by Mychael Danna; production designer Phillip Barker; produced by Mr. Egoyan Simone Urdl and Jennifer Weiss; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." who despised his Lebanese son-in-law Sami (Noam Jenkins) a luthier leads his grandson to believe Sami deliberately crashed the car that killed his daughter (Simon’s mother) Rachel (Rachel Blanchard) a gifted violinist. Morris’s account has so tainted his grandson’s memory of his father that it easy for the boy to imagine that he is the son of the couple in the news story." in which a Jordanian terrorist secreted a bomb in the hand luggage of his pregnant Irish girlfriend without her knowledge on an El Al flight from London to Israel. Had it exploded 380 passengers would have died." Tom (Scott Speedman) a tow-truck driver who has inherited Morris’s hatred of Middle Eastern people. Tom is confronted with his prejudice when a mysterious woman in a beaded veil visits the house and asks pointed personal questions about his beliefs." technology has a life of it own. Wondrous but also scary it has the potential to warp reality and to release demonic forces." his French and drama teacher who is Lebanese about a terrorist who secreted explosives in the luggage of his pregnant girlfriend who was traveling to Israel. The bomb was confiscated by Israeli security before it went off." ” a profound and provocative exploration of cultural inheritance communications technology and the roots and morality of terrorism the Canadian filmmaker Atom Egoyan nimbly wades into an ideological minefield without detonating an explosion." Simon (Devon Bostick) interviewing his dying grandfather Morris (Kenneth Welsh) in a hospital via video cellphone about the circumstances of their deaths." ” Mr. Egoyan’s finest film since “The Sweet Hereafter” (1997) doesn’t strain to maintain a pretense of naturalism. In every scene you feel the controlling hand of Mr. Egoyan who wrote produced and directed it. Its characters’ burning passions are attached to symbols — a violin scroll Christmas ornaments old photographs a lawn display of the Nativity a beaded Islamic veil — that have the mystique of sacred relics to the people who possess them." until the device itself begins to crumple." 
6445
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08audi.html
he repeatedly assures his cast and crew all unpaid and partly hired through Craigslist that his backers have promised $200 million for the production." ” a documentary by Michael Jacobs that follows the descent of a scrappy indie production into a full-blown fiasco and megalomaniacal folly." ” proclaimed the great producer in the sky. “I want you to be the Rolls-Royce of filmmaking.”" part case study in spiritual craziness “Audience of One” illustrates how smoothly delusions of show business grandeur can dovetail with religious zealotry. Movies work in mysterious ways." German investors — never arrives and neither does the epic described as “Star Wars” meets “The Ten Commandments.” The filmmakers have an avalanche of technical and financial misfortunes so overwhelming that Satan himself is blamed for undermining the divine blockbuster." Alex Lyman; produced by Mr. Jacobs Zack Sanders and Matt Woods; released by IndiePix. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." while praying on a mountaintop Richard Gazowsky the pastor of the Voice of Pentecost Church in San Francisco says he received a message from God." 
6446
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08rudo.html
Cha Cha Chá) that journey is reversed and the themes are more social than metaphysical. Tato and Beto country boys dropped down in the big city struggle with fame wealth and the caprices of life in a media-saturated consumer culture." Adam Kimmel; edited by Alex Rodriguez; music by Felipe Pérez Santiago; production designer Eugenio Caballero; produced by Alfonso Cuarón Alejandro González Iñárritu Guillermo del Toro and Frida Torresblanco; released by Sony Pictures Classics. In Spanish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." who also delivers some mock-philosophical voice-over narration. A genial parasite played with sly good humor by the Argentine actor Guillermo Francella Batuta brokers a career first for Tato a speedy and surefooted forward and then for Beto an indomitable goalkeeper. They are hired by rival teams which sets up a climactic fraternal showdown during a big game." ” an exuberant road picture written by Mr. Cuarón and his brother Alfonso who also directed it. In that film they played rich kids from Mexico City traversing the countryside and finding sexual kicks and intimations of mortality amid the picturesque poverty." drug use brief violence and nudity." they achieve fame as Rudo and Cursi nicknames that can be translated more or less as tough and corny." more cynical view of its characters and their fate. Too often he allows “Rudo y Cursi” to coast on the likeability of its stars who seem at times to be enjoying themselves more than their characters are able to." as do its sweet and scrappy heroes who are played with antic energy by Diego Luna (Beto the tough one) and Gael García Bernal (Tato the corny one). Written and directed by Carlos Cuarón the movie tells its story haphazardly but with a winning measure of swagger and style. It mixes soap-opera sentimentality with playful jumpy aggression and dresses a bittersweet rags-to-riches fable in the bright clothes of pop satire." who finds fulfillment peddling dietary supplements is played by Adriana Paz) his equilibrium undermined by his hot temper just as his good fortune is threatened by his compulsive gambling. Neither brother seems especially well equipped to deal with success and Batuta certainly isn’t much of a mentor." it also in the end feels a little thin largely because it is unsure of how earnestly to treat its own lessons about fate ambition and brotherly love. There is a lot of velocity in this ultimately familiar tale of rising and falling but not much gravity. “Rudo y Cursi” is partly about the consequences of taking a game much too seriously but at the same time it treats everything else — life death love money — like a game." Diego Luna (Beto) Guillermo Francella (Batuta) Dolores Heredia (Elvira) Adriana Paz (Toña) and Jessica Mas (Maya)." and so he pursues an ill-starred second career as an accordionist and balladeer. His signature song is a norteño version of the old Cheap Trick hit “I Want You to Want Me ” the video for which is one of the film’s comic highlights. His bid for pop stardom is accompanied by a dream-come-true tabloid romance with Maya Vega (Jessica Mas) a television hostess he and his buddies used to fantasize about back home." 
6447
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08outr.html
the former New Jersey governor on the psychic and spiritual costs of such denial. Mr. McGreevey is talking about himself but the editing makes it seem as if he also has Mr. Craig in mind.)" as a consequence are not as much fun) he hardly pretends to be a detached or unbiased observer. “Outrage” is less an analysis of the practice of outing closeted public officials than a defense of it an argument that the dignity and full citizenship of gay men and lesbians are undermined by an unspoken pact of secrecy." as a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors more than 30 years ago insisting that coming out was central to the project  of gay civil rights. And Mr. Dick’s film often works less as an exposé of current injustice than as a historical essay looking back in particular on the 1980s when AIDS made candor and visibility matters of survival for many gay men and when resistance to gay rights began to emerge as an organizing principle for conservatives in the Republican Party." Los Angeles Philadelphia San Francisco and Washington." and this movie haunted overtly by the 2004 elections and implicitly by the passage of Proposition 8 last year in California when Republicans successfully rallied opposition to gay marriage meets its audience in a notably changed world. Somewhat surprisingly what was clearly intended as a culture-war call to arms feels more like a declaration of victory." ” one of them says. “And it’s also a deeply closeted town.” A generation ago the first part of that statement would have sounded scandalous but a generation from now the second part is likely to sound quaint even a little outlandish as parents patiently explain to their puzzled children that in the olden days gay people were supposed to be ashamed of themselves just as black people were forced to use different bathrooms and women were not allowed to vote." whose previous documentaries have examined sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church the inner workings of the movie ratings system and the life and work of the French philosopher Jacques Derrida is a cerebral muckraker." including Andrew Sullivan the blogger and author; Representative Barney Frank the Massachusetts Democrat; and Larry Kramer the novelist and playwright who was a founder of Act Up.  Their reflections are interwoven with allegations about the sex lives of several well-known current political figures including Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida Representative David Dreier of California and Larry E. Craig the former Idaho senator whose arrest on a charge of soliciting sex in a Minnesota airport bathroom provides Mr. Dick with his most complete case study." “Outrage” promises to illuminate a “brilliant conspiracy” that protects the secret lives of some powerful politicians while ensuring that the rights and interests of ordinary gay and lesbian Americans remain marginal. The choice of the word conspiracy may be deliberately provocative but this indignant and methodical new documentary directed by Kirby Dick offers a lot of insight into the ideology and psychology of present-day political homophobia." but “Outrage ” a battlefield report from the culture wars clearly intended to rally the morale of one side while attacking the exposed flanks of the other is also a snapshot of a rapidly changing landscape. Its accusations of hypocrisy and betrayal are pointed and in many cases persuasive but they would have sounded different — more urgent and perhaps more incendiary — a few years or even six months ago. With each passing day that brilliant conspiracy looks increasingly tattered and beleaguered and the men at the center of it seem less fearsome than pathetic." Thaddeus Wadleigh; edited by Doug Blush and Matt Clarke; music by Peter Golub; produced by Amy Ziering; released by Magnolia Pictures. In Manhattan at the Chelsea Clearview Cinemas 260 West 23d Street. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." which are Mr. Dick’s focus than with the social changes his film quietly and powerfully documents. In other words the real story is not in the discretion and possible dishonesty of the targets of outing but rather in the openness and self-acceptance of nearly everyone else in the film people who are able to assert their humanity their normalcy without shame or apology." a blogger who sees it as his mission to name names and reveal secrets — is that politicians who vote against gay interests while surreptitiously pursuing gay sex deserve exposure. There was a time when this position seemed much more radical than it does now and I suspect that “Outrage” might create less of a furor than it would have a few years ago." 
6448
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08gard.html
Mr. Kennedy; edited by Alex Blatt Tyson FitzGerald and Mr. Kennedy; music by Gabriel Tenorio and Doug DeAngelis; released by Oscilloscope Laboratories. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." the South Central Farm (offered by the city in 1992 as a form of therapy after the Rodney King riots) grew into a bountiful provider of fruits vegetables and spiritual well-being. But when in 2004 the gardeners received a notice to vacate the director Scott Hamilton Kennedy was there to capture the ensuing conflict." race and religion (opposing the gardeners are an African-American activist and a Jewish developer) Mr. Kennedy struggles to untie a baffling tangle of backroom conversations and off-the-record dealing. His sympathies are clear but his focus on individual farmers leaves many questions unanswered including the way in which plots are allocated (some people have multiple gardens) and why we see only Latino gardeners." self-serving politicians a greedy land developer and Daryl Hannah. Yet this intricate and compelling documentary about the tug of war over a 14-acre community garden in South Central Los Angeles paints a portrait of American politics not even Mr. Sayles could render more saddening." the farm’s founder it isn’t complicated at all. “Land people food — it’s a pretty simple idea ” she insists. But as “The Garden” proves when it comes to fighting city hall nothing is ever that simple." 
6449
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08brot.html
Jake visited Iraq twice once while Isaac and Joe were stationed there recording their unit’s daily round from downtime to full-on combat." film ’em” could be the tagline for “Brothers at War ” yet another Iraq war documentary. This one perhaps the most achingly patriotic to date was directed by Jake Rademacher an actor and the oldest of seven siblings.  Mr. Rademacher’s faulty eyesight put an end to his military ambitions by disqualifying him from West Point. His brother Isaac made the grade however and eventually went on to fight alongside their brother Joe a sniper-school grad." you suspect that Jake’s unstated motivation was a starring role for himself (his lack of appeal and bland narration notwithstanding) hence his nickname Hollywood assigned by his brother’s comrades." Marc Miller and Conor Colwell; edited by Robert DeMaio; music by Lee Holdridge; the song “Brothers in Arms” written and performed by John Ondrasik; produced by Norman S. Powell and Mr. Rademacher; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. At the Village VII 66 Third Avenue at 13th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." “Brothers at War” has its share of potent moments most of them with Mr. Rademacher’s family in the States. (It was back home that another  brother died at 20 from a drug overdose.) Insights shared by those left behind sharpen the focus on the sacrifices made by those who go off to war — a message that might have been clearer were the film not so self-serving." 
6450
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/08/movies/08ashe.html
Adam Suschitzky; edited by Rachel Tunnard; music by Miguel Mera; production designer Pere Francesch; produced by Carlo Dusi Jonny Persey and Jaume Vilalta; released by Regent Releasing.   Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes." Robert Pattinson (Salvador Dalí) Matthew McNulty (Luis Buñuel) Marina Gatell (Margarita) and Arly Jover (Gala)." “Little Ashes” might have vibrated with the danger and strangeness of the intensely lived commitments it tries to explore. But while Mr. Morrison and Ms. Goslett are clearly enthralled by the daring of their subjects — in particular by García Lorca’s bravery — they seem impervious to the lessons offered by the artists’ work which was in every case opposed to the kind of tidy deflating realism practiced in this film. It suffers the fate of so many biographies in which genuine admiration expresses itself through the dutiful recording of dates and facts." his flamboyant perversity masks a great deal of erotic anxiety and his longing for García Lorca is accompanied by a terror of actual physical intimacy. Their relationship is consummated only indirectly through the mediation of Margarita (Marina Gatell) a journalist whose love for Federico makes her the fourth wheel of a curious tricycle." and soon becomes a minor campus sensation promoted by the bossy blustering Buñuel even as he becomes infatuated with García Lorca Buñuel’s quiet and sensitive roommate. Buñuel jealous of both of them tries to cajole Dalí into running off to Paris knowing that García Lorca whose writing is rooted in his Andalusian homeland is unlikely to follow." Salvador Dalí and Federico García Lorca — important artistic figures of the 20th century whose paths crossed in Madrid early in their careers — could make for a fascinating movie. Instead we have “Little Ashes ” directed by Paul Morrison and written by Philippa Goslett a painfully sincere study in creative passion sexual ardor and political zeal that embalms a mad and exuberant historical moment within the talky balky conventions of period-costumed highbrow soap opera." language and a brief disturbing image." since it is hard to imagine anyone less dull than Dalí Buñuel and García Lorca. Mr. Morrison works hard to convey the impulses that fed their art but he seems unable to treat these wildly innovative figures in any but the most literal-minded way. So García Lorca (Javier Beltrán) recites verse in voice-over; Buñuel (Matthew McNulty) delivers potted avant-garde aphorisms; and Dalí (Robert Pattinson) well he trembles and drinks and says scandalous things in the drawing studio and at dinner parties." ” with various handsome young men in beautifully tailored shirts bursting into university dormitory rooms lighting cigarettes and declaiming knowingly on art religion modern society and the talents and deficiencies of their peers. A couple of brightly  plumed semi-emancipated women occasionally take part in the conversations which the international cast utters in Castilian-accented — or should I say acthented — English." “Little Ashes” briefly transcends its musty trappings and achieves a measure of dramatic clarity and psychological insight. (There are also some lovely travelogue images of  Spanish landscapes.) Buñuel a brawler and a homophobe is at least partly at war with his own unacknowledged desires. García Lorca’s acceptance of his own homosexuality entails grave risks in a conservative society creeping toward fascist dictatorship." interrupting his career as a virginal vampire heartthrob looks distractingly like Louise Brooks and conveys little beyond a kind of free-floating inscrutable freakishness." vigorous arguments about aesthetics and politics conducted by elegantly dressed men wielding cigarettes and cocktails. But neither the ideological melodrama of Spain before the Civil War nor the exploding-teapot storms of the international artistic avant-garde really come alive here. The film is an open-hearted tribute to three great iconoclasts whose response to its piety and sincerity would most likely have been ruthless and obscene mockery." 
6451
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/06/movies/06wind.html
Pablo (Jorge Diez) a renowned concert pianist now living in Europe. To prepare for the visit he has hired a piano tuner to recondition an old upright that hasn’t been touched in years. As the tuner extracts discarded toy soldiers stuck between the strings it is clear that the instrument like its owner is probably beyond repair." Antonio is a stern imperious hard-nosed skinflint. There is talk of checks that must be paid within a certain time. He is annoyed to discover that money he had hidden in a copy of Jorge Luis Borges’s  “Universal History of Infamy” appears to be missing. Plucking a key from his pajamas he instructs his servants to fetch a 40-year-old bottle of Champagne for a reunion toast." Julián Apezteguia; edited by Mohamed Rajid; music by Nicolás Sorín; production designer Rafael Neville; released by Film Movement. Shown with a three-minute short film “The Bather” by George Griffin at Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. In Spanish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." he is slavishly served by two devoted housekeepers. His doctor who visits gently urges him to seek full-time hospital care a prospect he refuses to consider although his hacienda is so remote that communications with the outside world are conducted by shortwave radio." ” which he describes in the production notes as “an involuntary remake” of Ingmar Bergman’s “Wild Strawberries.”" Antonio (played by the noted Uruguayan playwright novelist and actor Antonio Larreta) an 80-year-old writer living on his remote estate in Patagonia is close spiritual kin to Isak Borg the elderly professor played by Victor Sjostrom in the 1957  Bergman masterpiece." he is accompanied by his wife (Carla Peterson) an impatient woman chained to her cellphone. The Champagne is poured and a toast is drunk but it is just a polite formality as one generation awaits the passing of the old." supporting himself on a cane and carrying his IV drip he totters into the yard unlocks the gate and wades unsteadily into a field that stretches to the horizon. Horses are visible in the distance and a stiff breeze is blowing. Deep into the field he pauses to urinate; then he suddenly loses strength and sinks into the grass in a stupor." and his mother introduces him to a beautiful baby sitter whose face has suddenly come back to him after nearly 80 years. Where had he stored this memory? he wonders. Now that it has returned he wants to keep her image in his mind lest he lose it forever. As portrayed in the movie she is a barely discernible form in a fog of remembrance." María del Carmen Giménez (María del Carmen) Emilse Roldán (Emilse) Roberto Rovira (Afinador) Jorge Diez (Pablo) and Carla Peterson (Claudia)." ” George Griffin’s three-minute short being shown with “The Window ” is an  evocative collage in which an animated flipbook of a dancing woman is superimposed over the filmed image of a woman bathing behind a shower curtain to the sounds of Bach harpsichord music. The image of the bather through the curtain is as mysterious as Antonio’s baby sitter." 
6452
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/04/movies/04flow.html
Lim Ming Wei (Ma Li Ahh) Amira Nasuha Binti Shahiran (Atan/Ayu) and James Lee (Ah Sui)." loving takes  —  a full minute of the boys sleeping; a lengthy windblown dance by a garish inflatable outdoor ad. Not much happens and yet somehow by the end the film has touched on Malaysia’s various linguistic and cultural identities and shown us a father who just maybe has been jolted out of his personal preoccupations. Not incidentally it has also made us laugh with its sly sense of found humor." presumably as loud and frenetic as ever. Before they barrel in it’s worth stopping at the Museum of Modern Art where “Flower in the Pocket ” from the Malaysian director Liew Seng Tat is providing a delicious quirky example of what the camera can do just by being an unhurried observer." directed and edited by Liew Seng Tat; director of photography Albert Hue See Leong; production designer Gan Siong King; produced by Yen San Michelle Lo. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theater 2 Museum of Modern Art. In Mandarin and Malay with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." which came out in Malaysia in 2007 and has won assorted international prizes begins a weeklong run Monday to conclude the ContemporAsian series. It follows two young brothers (Wong Zi Jiang and Lim Ming Wei) who seem to be more or less raising themselves as their father (James Lee) spends long hours absorbed by the mannequins he makes and repairs. (There is no mother in evidence.) The boys make a new friend find a puppy get in trouble at school; sometimes they even say a few words to each other but not often." 
6453
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01eldo.html
“Eldorado” was written and directed by Bouli Lanners (“Ultranova”) who also stars as Yvan a gruff overweight loner who earns his living importing American cars and selling them to collectors. In his sawed off jeans and khaki shirt plastered with automotive decals Yvan resembles a younger Gérard Depardieu in modified biker gear." Jean-Paul De Zaeytijd; edited by Ewin Ryckaert; produced by Jacques-Henri Bronckart; released by Film Movement. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village (212) 995-2000. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." Fabrice Adde (Elie) Philippe Nahon (the Collector) Didier Toupy (the Nudist) and Françoise Chichéry (Elie’s Mom)." a red bandana tied around the stringy remains of his hair sits in a field under a threatening sky and declares to the camera “If I’m not Christ may God send a thunderbolt right now to strike me down.” When nothing happens he continues: “I am Christ the Messiah. But I haven’t returned to be crucified a second time.” You wonder: is he is crank or a prophet? Or both?" “Eldorado” turns into a sad contemplation of fractured family relationships and eternal regrets. Elie’s mother (Françoise Chichéry) regards her wastrel son with the stricken look of a woman who knows in her bones that he is doomed but loves him with a hopeless desperation. When Elie briefly disappears and we hear in the background the shouts of a savage father-son battle the mother clutches Yvan’s hand her eyes wild with grief and terror." only to disappear again  reflects the movie’s tempestuous emotional climate and lends “Eldorado” a cosmic dimension. The camera is continually pulling back to photograph characters moving in the distance in settings that are as beautiful as they are desolate." ” a road movie that poignantly juggles absurdism and melancholy the summertime landscape of the Wallonia region of Belgium is filmed to resemble a miniaturized American West. The soundtrack for this story of two mutually suspicious strangers who establish a tentative bond on a highway to nowhere echoes the twang of Ennio Morricone with a hint of parody." Yvan detects the sounds of an intruder in his grubby upstairs apartment picks up a heavy metal pipe and finds a burglar (Fabrice Adde) cowering under his bed. The skinny young man who emerges has the scared dark eyes of a hunted animal and Yvan immediately grasps that he is a heroin addict. Calling himself Elie the thief insists he has been clean for two weeks and was only looking for enough money to take a bus to his parents’ home in a Belgian-French border town. Yvan taking pity on the young man offers to drive him there." a white-haired driver (Philippe Nahon) who stops to offer help persuades Yvan to visit his nearby house where he has the equipment to repair the vehicle. The man who claims to be psychic has a garage full of dented cars all of them involved in fatal accidents. After another mishap in which Yvan falls asleep at the wheel they are aided are by a gaunt elderly nudist (Didier Toupy) calling himself Alain Delon who perches stark naked in a director’s chair with his name on the back." he tries to be an older brother to Elie. But for men fleeing pain for the freedom of the wide open spaces whether of Montana or Wallonia the movie suggests the price of that freedom may be an unbearable loneliness." 
6454
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01merr.html
very fine) a runaway battered wife who’s trying to hide old hurts by making a new life for herself in Chicago. In a darkly funny spin on the cliché of the cute meet Frank first spots Kate while out on a job. He’s hunkered down on a rooftop and peering through a gun scope when he suddenly sees a brightly illuminated woman standing in a window and holding her hands palms up in what appears to be a gesture of supplication. She looks like a saint like a statue of Mary come to life. It’s nearly Christmas and if this isn’t a miracle well it is certainly a sharp witty setup." Michael Keaton (Frank Logan) Tom Bastounes (Dave Murcheson) Guy Van Swearingen (Billy Goldman) and Bobby Cannavale (Michael)." you learn within minutes seems entirely at ease shooting another human being to death.  He is Frank Logan who when not wielding a gun is sitting at a sewing table in a men’s custom clothing shop. He’s a question mark of a character a question that remains as unanswered at the end of this satisfying film as at the start. Much like the straightforward visual style he has adopted for this film his first as a director Mr. Keaton plays Frank without any attention-grabbing important moments. Though he can be an extremely animated performer with a gunning motormouth he plays the character with such physical reserve that while Frank might not be dead you feel he’s almost certainly already buried." ” an austere nearly pitch-perfect character study of two mismatched yet ideally matched souls is of its director the actor Michael Keaton sitting on a park bench. Still as stone he stares ahead in profile sphinxlike. He doesn’t say a thing but the scene overflows with meaning from the ringing church bells to the somber wintry light and the shallow focus that has turned the world around him into an undifferentiated blur. He seems less lonely than simply and bluntly alone." director of photography Chris Seager; edited by Howard Smith and Grant Myers; produced by Tom Bastounes Steven A. Jones and Mr. Lazzeretti; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." a shakily held knife and some suitably tough language." though there’s nothing particularly uplifting about their relationship. The film’s title needless to say has an ironic bite. One of the pleasures of “The Merry Gentleman” is Mr. Keaton’s commitment to that bite which never registers as cruel or gratuitous just honest weary sad. That extends to the performances which with the exception of the usually dependable Bobby Cannavale whose overwrought turn as Kate’s husband throws the film temporarily off balance are of a tonal piece with the rest of the picture. A character named Murcheson (Tom Bastounes) a prickly sloppy cop who in trying to score with Kate accidentally happens on Frank is such a rich creation — he even has a great partner played by Guy Van Swearingen — he could be spun off into a sequel. Mr. Keaton?" this time in her vestibule after the large Christmas tree she’s trying to drag home topples her over. Suddenly Frank is there pulling the tree up and her along with it. “I found a girl under a  tree ” he says softly. They strike up a friendship one that evolves more off-screen than on. While joy seems too remote too far out of reach they seem to bring each other comfort. (The film’s title of course refers to the Christmas carol.) By refusing to tell us too much Mr. Keaton working from the screenplay by Ron Lazzeretti (an unfamiliar name that I hope becomes more familiar) succeeds in being true to something the movies tend to forget: that other people’s relationships are often mysterious." 
6455
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01terr.html
shouldn’t you give your extraterrestrial inhabitants an interesting complex appearance? The beings of Terra the planet in peril in the 3-D “Battle for Terra ” look a bit like flying spermatozoa. They’re supposed to be lovable — Terra has mastered the art of peaceful prosperous existence you see — but in truth they’re kind of creepy." their squiggly paradise is disrupted by the arrival of brutish humans who are looking for a new home after having destroyed their own through a combination of environmental abuse and war. The human military commander (voice of Brian Cox) is eager to just blast the locals to bits and take over Terra but one of his fighter pilots (Luke Wilson) starts thinking differently after he crash-lands and is rescued by a girl-squiggle named Mala (Evan Rachel Wood)." Brian Cox (General Hemmer) James Garner (Doron) Chris Evans (Stewart Stanton) Danny Glover (President Chen) Amanda Peet (Maria Montez) David Cross (Giddy) Dennis Quaid (Roven) and Luke Wilson (Jim Stanton)." but some of the scenes are eye-popping especially — sorry peace-loving Terrians — the battle sequences. The starry voice cast also includes Dennis Quaid Danny Glover and James Garner." 3-D or otherwise is a violent business." based on a story by Mr. Tsirbas; edited by J. Kathleen Gibson and Jim May; music by Abel Korzeniowski; produced by Keith Caldar Jessica Wu Dane Allan Smith Ryan Colucci; released by Lionsgate and Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." 
6456
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01jazz.html
based on the story by Erica Chamblee; director of photography Christopher T J McGuire; edited by Terry Dawson and Daniel Rezende; music by Carl Thompson; produced by Ms. Chamblee and Ms. Christian; released by Soblu Productions. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 19 minutes." marijuana use and an implied rape." as the frontman of  a go-go group has some crackling scenes with a far more experienced actor Wood Harris the band’s booker. And Erica Chamblee (who conceived the story) is intriguing as Jasmine’s younger sister Leah who has performing dreams of her own. Ms. Chamblee is good enough that she almost makes you believe that a teenager could grow up in a tough city like Washington and still be as naïve as  Leah is." ” a coming-of-age film set in Washington so perhaps they can be forgiven for not realizing how tired this general plotline is: one or more young people see stardom as a way up and out and have enough talent that they might make it but drugs guns and/or pregnancy intervene. Some dreams will be realized some dashed but audiences having been dragged through this story too many times won’t care which." Wood Harris (Gabriel  Marx) Monique Cameron (Jasmine Morgan) Erica Chamblee (Leah Morgan) and André Strong (Flight)." there are a couple of reasons to stick with this film. The main one is the music which isn’t jazz (that refers to Jasmine a singer who’s looking for her break) but the Washington brand of funk known as go-go. The club scenes pulsate with it and it gets in your bones quickly." 
6457
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01wolv.html
none of it excessively graphic as well as some tame sexuality and a few glimpses of undraped superhero derrière." still known as James Logan his claws still ordinary bone rather than high-tech adamantium spends the credit sequence fighting in a bunch of wars (and not in the uniform of his native land) alongside Victor. Victor’s claws sprout from his fingernails rather than emerging from between his knuckles and he is played by Liev Schreiber who really did once live in Canada and whose role here is not unlike the one he had in Edward Zwick’s “Defiance.” This time he is a rampaging mutant rather than a Jewish partisan but in both cases he is the angrier rougher member of a pair of brawling brothers." he becomes Wolverine only after the adamantium implants) are comrades then mortal enemies then comrades again. After a falling-out in Vietnam James retires to the Canadian Rockies where a native legend he hears from his girlfriend Kayla (Lynn Collins) inspires his eventual nickname. But first a lot of his former mutant comrades wind up dead a development that unhappily if coincidentally echoes the recent by now almost forgotten “Watchmen” movie." Donald M. McAlpine; edited by Nicolas De Toth and Megan Gill; music by Harry Gregson-Williams; production designer Barry Robison;  produced by Lauren Shuler Donner Ralph Winter Hugh Jackman and John Palermo; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." but it is the latest evidence that the superhero movie is suffering from serious imaginative fatigue. A twist at the end that gives poor Wolverine a bad case of amnesia — turning him into a kind of Jason Bourne with sideburns — is a virtual admission that nothing terribly interesting has been learned about the character. He forgets his origins before the movie devoted to their exposition is even over. It won’t take you much longer." sporting fangs as well as mutton chops gives the movie a surly kick even though the digital effects that produce his leaping animal-like movements look pretty crummy. The explosions and landscapes have a bit more eye appeal but even the showstopping visual flights (including a climactic battle at Three Mile Island and a brawl on the streets of New Orleans) have a rushed rote feel about them. What’s worse the outsize emotions that give any decent superhero epic its adolescent pop-operatic gravity are diminished by the sheer hectic confusion of the storytelling." better known (though not in this movie) as Sabretooth the venerable Marvel supervillain who at one point was thought to be Wolverine’s father is actually his sibling. Go figure! We learn this thanks to a confusing precredit sequence in which a paternity mix-up back in 1845 results in two deaths and further puzzling questions like how did the paternity get mixed up in the first place? But this is a PG-13 movie and therefore not inclined to dwell on icky matters of reproduction when there is wholesome bloodshed to pursue." Wolverine as embodied by the muscular Australian song-and-dance man Hugh Jackman always seemed kind of special. A grouchy sensitive loner with retractable metal claws and apparently unretractable facial hair Wolverine brooded and growled through the first three “X-Men” pictures helping to supply them (or at least the first two) with welcome grace notes of rough humor and macho pathos. And now “X-Men Origins: Wolverine ” with its ungainly geeky title and its relatively trim (under-two-hour) running time helps explain just what makes this guy so intriguing and unusual." ” but almost programmatically unmemorable a hodge-podge of loose ends wild inconsistencies and stale genre conventions. Vengeance is the default motive for most of the mayhem that is perpetrated and for good measure there is a military-scientific government conspiracy overseen by a reptilian bad guy (the excellent Danny Huston)." Liev Schreiber (Victor Creed) Danny Huston (Stryker) Will.i.am (John Wraith) Lynn Collins (Kayla Silverfox) Kevin Durand (Fred Dukes) Dominic Monaghan (Bradley) Taylor Kitsch (Remy LeBeau) Daniel Henney (Agent Zero) and Ryan Reynolds (Wade Wilson)." mostly mutants with various powers and questionable franchise-enhancing capabilities. Ryan Reynolds Taylor Kitsch and Will.i.am show up and do what they can but prove hopelessly unable to compensate for the absence of say Halle Berry Anna Paquin or Ian McKellen." directed by Gavin Hood (“Rendition ” “Tsotsi”) with a screenplay by David Benioff and Skip Woods has been adapted. Still Wolverine’s nationality does in the present context raise some puzzling questions. What is he doing fighting in the American Civil War? Why does he talk like a Queens longshoreman who spent his childhood summers in Indiana?" 
6458
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01wink.html
Peter Waweru and Marie Joëlle Rizk; edited by Ms. Timmons and Mr. Waweru; produced by Jack Timmons and Ms. Timmons; released by First Run Features. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 31 minutes. This film is not rated." develop a routine and work up the nerve to present a graduate show in front of an audience. As Miss Indigo Blue leads them on their quest for sexy self-discovery she also guides the filmmaker Deirdre Allen Timmons through the thriving local burlesque scene and introduces its stars." the proprietress of the Academy of Burlesque in Seattle teaches women to bump and grind jiggle and flirt strip tease and flaunt their every square inch — except  the naughty bits covered up by (state-mandated)  pasties and  G-string. Less titillating but perhaps more to the point she also empowers them to overthrow their various doubts hang-ups and body issues with the help of her assistant the Shanghai Pearl the daughter of conservative Taiwanese immigrants who burlesques  sexual and cultural stereotypes." 
6459
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01skep.html
a glowering local priest (Robert Prosky) and psychiatrist (Ed Herrmann) dispense tidbits of dirt about Bryan’s traumatic family history. At this point “The Skeptic” turns into a cut-and-dried Freudian melodrama that gives repressed memory a supernatural dimension." a sultry possibly crazy young psychic who comes to the house to snoop. Tom Arnold miscast and looking uncomfortably out of place skulks around the movie’s fringes as Bryan’s law partner who has a taste for playing Halloween pranks." Tom Arnold (Sully) Zoe Saldana (Cassie) Ed Herrmann (Dr. Shepard) Andrea Roth (Robin Becket) Bruce Altman (Dr. Coven) and Robert Prosky (Father Wymond)." Bryan stays in the house while contesting his aunt’s will which bequeathed  it not to him but to an institute devoted to the study of paranormal phenomena.  After some unsettling experiences in his temporary home he visits the institute where experiments are being conducted in extrasensory perception and engages in long-winded conversations with its founder Dr. Coven (Bruce Altman)." ” written and directed by Tennyson Bardwell wants to be a haunted house movie for grownups if such an oxymoron is possible. That means that there are no thrill-seeking teenage daredevils whose curiosity incites a bloodbath at the hands of undead spirits.  There are no jarring shocks only discreet tingles as Bryan Becket (Tim Daly) a lawyer stubborn rationalist and all-around sourpuss investigates strange happenings in the three-story Victorian house his late aunt came to believe was haunted." Claudio Rocha; music by Brett Rosenberg; produced by Mary-Beth Taylor Mr. Bardwell Isen Robbins and Aimee Schoof; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6460
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01reva.html
Martin Gschlacht; edited by Karina Ressler; production designer Maria Gruber; produced by Mathias Forberg Heinz Stussak Mr. Spielmann and Sandra Bohle; released by Janus Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. In German with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 1 minute. This film is not rated." Götz Spielmann’s “Revanche” is a tidy glum thriller that aims for a tone of sour humanism perched just on the near edge of cynical despair. Traveling from a decidedly unromantic Vienna to a weary-looking but still picturesque stretch of Austrian countryside the film also spans the distance from lower-depths realism to moral fable." Ursula Strauss (Susanne) Irina Potapenko (Tamara) Andreas Lust (Robert) and Hannes Thanheiser (Old Man)." at any rate. Mr. Spielmann seems to be after a combination of starkness and psychological complication and the result is a pileup of motives and implications that undermine the blunt impact of the story. But the characters and situations are interesting enough and the filmmaking is sufficiently skilled to provide a measure of reasonably thoughtful entertainment." most likely — Alex tries to reinvent himself as a gallant outlaw a knight errant who will use his criminal wiles to rescue his beloved from evil. His plans go horribly inevitably wrong in a way that is both surprising and genuinely upsetting — the single moment when “Revanche” achieves some real emotional force." ” also from Austria and Ozcan Alper’s “Autumn ” from Turkey — “Revanche” features an Eastern European prostitute thus raising the audience’s awareness of global sex trafficking while conveniently satisfying its desire for a beautiful naked woman to ogle. Tamara (Irina Potapenko) works in a Viennese brothel and spends her spare time with her lover Alex (Johannes Krisch) an underworld small-timer more gofer than gangster. Alex is clearly out of his league but part of what appeals to Tamara about him is that he is an unambitious unthreatening loser and therefore as close to a nice guy as she is likely to find." where the inhabitants include a crusty old codger and an anxious policeman and his bored sex-hungry wife. The performances are solid and the film as a whole works as a modest satisfying little crime story. Nothing exceptional though such movies are perhaps rarer these days than they used to be." 
6461
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01monk.html
each is leavened by a bit of deadpan minimalist comedy: an errant hazelnut skittering across a wooden floor in “Climates”; a maudlin pop song used as a cellphone ringtone here. And what Mr. Ceylan does with his actors is close to uncanny. Their dialogue is almost entirely literal and pedestrian in keeping with their resolute ordinariness but their equally ordinary faces become masks of mysterious almost sublime feeling." almost as if the clouds had been bruised by the emotional brutality the characters inflict on one another. Mr. Ceylan a photographer as well as a filmmaker at times falls prey to the pathetic fallacy letting rain and lightning and mocking bursts of sunshine do too much of the dramatic work. And at the end he proves so besotted by his own prodigious ability to produce cinema with a capital C that he keeps the film going even after the story is effectively over. Good pulp depends above all on a ruthless sense of economy and “Three Monkeys” is just a bit too profligate too fancy to be entirely convincing." and while “Climates” begins in warm sunshine it feels most at home in the wintry landscape of its final scenes. Mr. Ceylan’s latest movie “Three Monkeys ” which earned him an award for directing at Cannes last year is in some ways a departure. The long takes and exquisite compositions are still there but this time Mr. Ceylan trains his cool detached sensibility on a ripe and pulpy melodrama that might have originated in a James M. Cain novel. The emotional weather is unusually hot and sticky and the themes of class antagonism and sexual cruelty are overt even if the literal depictions of sex and violence remain oblique and understated." as the saying goes ensue. In Eyup’s absence his son Ismail (Ahmet Rifat Sungar) who can’t seem to pass his university entrance exam drifts from adolescent idleness toward something potentially more dangerous. Hacer (Hatice Aslan) the boy’s mother motivated at least partly by anxiety about her son seeks out Servet’s help and ends up having an affair with him. What follows while not exactly predictable fits squarely within the logic of classic film noir where cold-eyed self-interest quickly becomes entangled with unruly desires and the primal imperatives of honor and obligation." Hatice Aslan (Hacer) Ahmet Rifat Sungar (Ismail) Ercan Kesal (Servet) Cafer Kose (Bayram) and Gurkan Aydin (the Child)." elusive point of view is evidence of Mr. Ceylan’s skill. But he keeps himself and the audience safely outside the cage while the four hapless beings inside suffer and struggle beyond the reach of our compassion as if some coldhearted creator had made them for no purpose beyond his own amusement." ” which Mr. Ceylan attributes to Confucius raises a bit of a mathematical puzzle since there are after all four main characters. Which three are the monkeys? Who is the odd man out — or as the case may be the lone human being in the primate menagerie? Does Servet make monkeys out of the other three a working-class family at the mercy of a rich and powerful man? Is Ismail the innocent young victim of a morally obtuse older generation? Is Eyup a decent guy undone by monkeyshines perpetrated by his boss his wife and his son? Or is it the men who are beasts menacing Hacer and driving her to the brink of madness? Her husband and her lover both threaten to kill her her son slaps her face and she can’t seem to escape any of them." whose face with its wide downturned mouth and dark-rimmed eyes would be at home in Noh theater or silent film. Without her charisma the movie would feel much more like an arch formal exercise. But Mr. Bingol brooding stoically behind a dark mustache and heavy brows and Mr. Sungar pouting and gaunt also impart their share of poetry. Only Mr. Kesal playing a man in dubious possession of a soul is a creature of pure prose." a politician in the midst of a re-election campaign is involved in a hit-and-run accident on a dark country road. He persuades his driver Eyup (Yavuz Bingol) to take the fall for him which will involve serving a relatively short prison sentence in exchange for an unspecified but large sum of money. Eyup who lives with his wife and teenage son in a small apartment with a mind-blowingly cinematic view of the Bosporus furrows his brow shrugs his shoulders and accepts the offer." when his third feature “Distant ” won two prizes in Cannes the Turkish director Nuri Bilge Ceylan has been a star of the international art-film circuit. “Distant” and its successor “Climates” (a Cannes selection in 2006) are distinguished by careful framing minimal camera movement and a mood that combines deep ennui with erotic longing. Though the films occasionally glance at modern global and Turkish social realities they have a studiously abstract timeless quality a style that seems intended to soothe gloomy late-born cinephiles with intimations of Antonioni." Ercan Kesal and Mr. Ceylan; director of photography Gokhan Tiryaki; edited by Ayhan Ergursel Bora Goksingol and Mr. Ceylan; art director Ebru Ceylan; produced by Zeynep Ozbatur; released by Zeitgeist Films. In Turkish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6462
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01limi.html
Alex Descas (Creole) Jean-François Stévenin (French) Luis Tosar (Violin) Paz de la Huerta (Nude) Tilda Swinton (Blonde) Youki Kudoh (Molecules) John Hurt (Guitar) Gael García Bernal (Mexican) Hiam Abbass (Driver) and Bill Murray (American)." some crude language and Ms. de la Huerta in various states of undress." ” a Minimalist exercise in the key of cool from Jim Jarmusch wears through a lot of shoe leather during his feature-length tramp. One of cinema’s men with no names credited only as the Lone Man this peripatetic figure is played (and walked and walked) by Isaach De Bankolé with a determined gait and inscrutable gaze that initially reveal almost as little as the elliptical storytelling. Like Mr. Jarmusch the Lone Man doesn’t share his intentions until he reaches the end. By that point though if you’ve paid attention to the cues and opening credits you will be steps ahead of both." Mr. Jarmusch is given a rich palette here by Christopher Doyle — the bright Spanish light does its part — the cinematographer known for his work with Wong Kar-wai. (Mr. Doyle makes color pop and vibrate but he also knows how to light for black skin.) Although the Lone Man doesn’t say much the images of him suggest plenty whether he’s looking through a red-tinted window or standing against a red wall in an elevator. These splashes of color which appear to signal some unspoken threat or warning serve as pieces of a puzzle that Mr. Jarmusch assembles with formal rigor and languid pacing that increasingly borders on the somnolent. Other pieces: a guitar a flamenco song and Bill Murray." one of the matchbox girls name-drops Hitchcock. Mr. Jarmusch’s production company for this film is PointBlank a reference to the 1967 John Boorman crime movie with Lee Marvin and he has borrowed the title of “The Limits of Control” from a 1975 essay by William S. Burroughs in which the writer analyzes a favorite topic: systems of control. Some of the lines in Mr. Jarmusch’s spare screenplay (“Everything is subjective ” “Reality is arbitrary”) also echo Mr. Burroughs notably “Nothing is true everything is permitted ” which the writer attributed to the 11th-century Islamic leader Hassan-i Sabbah and from which the word assassin derives." since his absence from most of the film hints what will happen in the unfortunately obvious climax. By the time Mr. Murray appears the Lone Man has racked up a lot of miles and traveled to other places where he’s exchanged matchboxes with mysterious types who ask him — just as the Creole did earlier — “You don’t speak Spanish do you?” The line is funny the first second and almost the third time. Along the way are a quotation from Arthur Rimbaud and several nods at Jean-Luc Godard including a shot that frames Paz de la Huerta’s apple-cheeked derriére much the same way that the French filmmaker did Brigitte Bardot’s in “Contempt.”" Christopher Doyle; edited by Jay Rabinowitz; music by Boris; production designer Eugenio Caballero; produced by Stacey Smith and Gretchen McGowan; released by Focus Features. In Manhattan at the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 56 minutes." lightly iridescent blue suit and purple shirt he travels to Madrid where he settles into a 1960s high-rise apartment building with a cylindrical facade that brings to mind rolled coins. There he stays for an indeterminate amount of time. Days slip into night though it’s unclear if they’re slipping in sequence or during different weeks and months. Whatever the case the Lone Man establishes a routine that deviates only in its details: he sits at a cafe drinks two espressos and at some point (hours minutes days later) is joined by a man or woman with whom he exchanges almost identical matchboxes. Sometimes he visits a museum." the Lone Man’s journey gets going in an airport where he receives some vaguely philosophical directives from a suave number played by the French actor Alex Descas and credited as Creole. Mr. Descas’s low-key intensity imbues the setup with a shiver of menace — despite the unhurried pace it feels as if something heavy were at stake — an air of unease that’s counterbalanced by the dryly amusing fashion in which the Creole’s sidekick (Jean-François Stévenin) translates the orders. The Creole speaks in yes Creole (his words are translated in the English subtitles) and the sidekick repeats them (sometimes with slight modification) in English which means the instructions are given three times. Repetition it emerges is the film’s central structuring device." including the reductive if sincere denouement inside a bunker with a representative of evil (no not Hitler) that brings the Lone Man’s walkabout to an anticlimactic close. It’s a lousy letdown at once naïve and too freighted with real-life meaning for a film that — as its thick accretion of pop-cultural and literary quotations indicates — leans so heavily on outside sources for substance and depth. Philip Glass has said that repetitive music “must be listened to as a pure sound-event an act without any dramatic structure.”  At least for its first hour before its repetition strategy turns tedious the same could be said of “The Limits of Control ” a nondramatic work best appreciated as a pure image-and-sound event." 
6463
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01ice.html
Sylvestre Guidi; edited by Nadia Ben Rachid; music by Laurent Petitgand; produced by Benoît Gryspeerdt and Ms. Aghion; released by Milestone Films. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 17 minutes. This film is not rated." which runs a scant 77 minutes but feels four times as long is so maddeningly slow to develop any sort of narrative shape that you begin to suspect Ms. Aghion of doodling. She is as it turns out a canny portraitist and her patience in divulging the context of her project pays off as the movie sinks something of the feel (brr!) and routine of an Antarctic expedition into your bones." though to what end isn’t entirely clear. What’s obvious is their tenacious obsessive joy in work — which to the outside observer simply looks like a bunch of grubby people unusually committed to sitting in dirt." lack of rhetorical inflation and commitment to humble observation generate a tough poetry. “Ice People” sticks in the mind." ethereal panoramas of cold. Culled from a four-month trip to Antarctica by the filmmaker Anne Aghion this modest little documentary sets its lens on one of the most majestic and forbidding landscapes on the planet." 
6464
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01home.html
but her husband Hermann (Michael Gaston) whose farm-equipment business is failing refuses. The scenes between Inga and Hermann who has retreated into an uncommunicative alcoholic despair are as painful as Inga’s lashing out at Indigo." directed and edited by Mary Haverstick; director of photography Richard Rutkowsi; music by Michele Mercure; production designer Judy Carson; produced by Chad Taylor Ms. Mercure and Ms. Haverstick; released by Monterey Media. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes." “Home” has only the most tentative narrative coherence. It’s a collection of beautifully acted fragments that leave you longing for a story to connect them. The pretty but rather shallow poetry doesn’t begin to do the job." ” which Ms. Haverstick wrote directed edited and co-produced is an extremely personal film that has the tone and structure of a diary. Set in 1969 it incorporates short passages of poetry recited by Ms. Harden in voice-over that were written by Ms. Haverstick’s mother Mary Stuart Haverstick who seems to be the model for Inga." death and the meaning of home and family. When sober she is a wise and affectionate mother. Repeated scenes of Inga and Indigo lying on a blanket in a field under the summer sky convey an ecstatic parent-child bond. (Ms. Scheel is Ms. Harden’s real-life daughter.) They are so close that early in the movie Indigo persuades her mother whose cancer is in remission to bare the scar from her mastectomy." the beautiful rolling countryside of Lancaster County Pa. — she comes upon a house for sale that resembles her childhood home and is taken on a tour of its rooms by its owner Peggy (Marian Seldes). A dignified spectral presence who exudes an engulfing gentleness Ms. Seldes’s character suggests a living ghost from the past. And while moving from room to room Inga has flashbacks to her childhood." Queens; and Malverne N.Y." ” shouts Inga (Marcia Gay Harden) an unhappily married survivor of breast cancer to her 8-year-old daughter Indigo (Eulala Scheel) in the most indelible scene in Mary Haverstick’s film “Home.” “I hate my life!” Inga drunkenly yells over and over. “And I hate you!”" Marian Seldes (Peggy) Michael Gaston (Hermann) and Eulala Scheel (Indigo)." when adults surrendering to despair and self-pity turn their children into convenient targets. But I’ve never heard a mother direct her bitterness at a young child with such piercing cruelty in a movie. And Ms. Harden a great actress who never shies away from truthfulness doesn’t soften Inga’s alcoholic viciousness." 
6465
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/01/movies/01ghos.html
who typically does better by his actresses proves of no help to Ms. Garner or anyone else. (Given his smoother work on “Freaky Friday” and “Mean Girls ” it’s hard not to wonder if this production itself were haunted.) Whether by contract or default “Girlfriends” is strictly a one-man show a vehicle for Mr. McConaughey’s diminishing returns. While there’s still a little charm under that permatan it’s getting tougher for him to sell the goods on only a smile. He might still be capable of delivering an actual performance again giving up something other than mannerisms (sauntering walk crinkling eyes flashing grin) but he needs a director who can help him get going. Age isn’t easy even for golden boys." Daryn Okada; edited by Bruce Green; music by Rolfe Kent; production designer Cary White; produced by Jon Shestack and Brad Epstein; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." flashing choppers so blindingly white that he could light his own premiere plays Connor Mead one of those rom-com  roués whose itchy libidos hide the usual sensitive soul. He’s a cad — he breaks up with three women simultaneously during a video conference — but really he’s just heartbroken and waiting for the right woman to help him heal. That would be Jenny Perotti a childhood friend played by an uncharacteristically hesitant Jennifer Garner whose performance suggests that she knows  that she’s strictly backup. Less a co-star than a place holder (you can almost see the words “enter generic female lead” in Jon Lucas and Scott Moore’s screenplay) she delivers her indulgent smiles so wanly that her requisite thaw feels more like capitulation than like love." Connor’s lifelong bad influence. Played by an insistently watchable Michael Douglas Uncle Wayne is a cautionary tale incarnate: an old-school playboy wrapped in a leathery casing who appears to have been at least partly based on the Hollywood producer Robert Evans. Now mostly famous for being famous and to an extent for his autobiography “The Kid Stays in the Picture ” Mr. Evans produced classics like “Chinatown” once upon a time. Although Mr. Douglas’s face is often obscured with tinted oversize glasses and a luxurious wave of hair almost as if he were trying to duck the camera he brings this ghost to freakish life. The lizard king  no longer rocks but he certainly does slither." Jennifer Garner (Jenny Perotti) Breckin Meyer (Paul) Lacey Chabert (Sandra) Robert Forster (Sergeant Volkom) Anne Archer (Vonda Volkom) Emma Stone (Allison Vandermeersh) and Michael Douglas (Uncle Wayne)." ” a junky-looking romantic comedy that’s neither remotely romantic nor passably comic. An old trick used to soften facial lines greasing a lens or filter can diffuse the image and much like candlelight bring a touch of glamour to a scene. And if ever a movie needed to have its hard lines eased with some cheap glamour it’s this one: a crude gloss on Dickens’s “Christmas Carol ” it tracks a high-flying photographer who on the eve of his brother’s marriage is forced by several ghosts to revisit a life dedicated to sexual catch and release." 
6466
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/29/movies/29ican.html
directed co-produced edited and partly scored the movie) calls his debut “a psychedelic campfire tale ” which is as good a description as any for this elusive experimental scare flick." Duncan Skiles (Doug) Chris Ford (Kimble) Heather Robb (Summer Day) Olivia Villanti (Sonia) and Larry Fessenden (Mickey Hauser)." and Mr. Reznick proves himself a keen disciple of the master. “I Can See You” heralds a splendid new filmmaker with one eye on genre mechanics one eye on avant-garde conceits and a third eye for transcendental weirdness." directed and edited by Graham Reznick; director of photography Gordon Arkenberg; music by Jeff Grace; produced by Peter Phok and Mr. Reznick; released by Cinema Purgatorio. At the Cinema Purgatorio at the Kraine Theater 85 East Fourth Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." and the trouble they encounter has nothing to do with deranged mutant hillbillies." nothing can quite be pinned down explained or identified. Rife with ominous close-ups strange superimpositions surrealistic digressions and a sound design that hints at all manner of inchoate terrors the movie itself seems to be descending into a fearful broken consciousness." madness and some very nasty bodily harm ensue." 
6467
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/25/movies/25obse.html
” a clanking low-rent imitation of “Fatal Attraction” that lacks the imagination to come up with such a novelty. But because Ali Larter plays Lisa the movie’s psychotic lady-who-refuses-to-take-no-for-an-answer like a carbon copy of Glenn Close’s demonic temptress in the original she succeeds in pushing buttons that make you root for her destruction and feel ashamed for doing so." Ken Seng; edited by Paul Seydor; music by Jim Dooley; production designer Jon Gary Steele; produced by Will Packer; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." Sharon (Beyoncé Knowles) and their young son. Until Lisa appears their only immediate problem is whether to remove the mirror from the bedroom ceiling." a colleague offers the questionable observation that young women nowadays view the workplace as a sexual hunting ground and that Lisa obviously has him “in her cross hairs.”" directed by Steve Shill from a screenplay by David Loughery. Unlike Michael Douglas’s cheating husband in “Fatal Attraction ” Derek never succumbs to Lisa’s advances even when she follows him into a bathroom stall and throws herself on him like a wildcat." of which the filmmakers could not have been unaware is the physical resemblance between Mr. Elba and Ms. Larter to O. J. and Nicole Brown Simpson. It lends “Obsessed” a distasteful taint of exploitation." demure spouse played by Anne Archer in the original Sharon is a pro-active woman warrior to put it mildly. Largely in the background for the first two-thirds of the movie Ms. Knowles strides to the center at the end when Sharon and Lisa have their inevitable knockdown drag-out confrontation." violence and sexual situations." Derek is riding high having just reeled in a $150 million account. For a while he succeeds in fending off Lisa. But just when he thinks she has abandoned her campaign she trails him to a corporate retreat where she poses as his wife to enter his hotel room and tries to kill herself with sleeping pills. After Lisa’s attempted suicide Derek who neglected to tell Sharon about the harassment endures a domestic fall from grace. But this perfect husband and father isn’t down and out for long." Beyoncé Knowles (Sharon Charles) Ali Larter (Lisa Sheridan) Bruce McGill (Joe Gage) Jerry O’Connell (Ben) and Christine Lahti (Detective Reyes)." a sultry office temp puts the moves on Derek Charles (Idris Elba) a happily married investment banker she wears an insinuating smirk that turns into a crazy rictus smile. Sidling up to Derek at a fancy bar and ordering two dirty martinis she announces that she likes hers “filthy.”" 
6468
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/25/movies/25muta.html
“Mutant Chronicles” alternates dialogue of jaw-dropping banality with scenes of frenzied monochromatic slaughter. What good will is generated by the resourceful ultra-synthetic steampunk production design is crushed by the unrelenting tedium of everything that happens within it." a ponderous monk who leads a ragtag group of soldiers (including Thomas Jane) oddballs (Anna Walton) and ethnic stereotypes (Luis Echegaray) on a quest to vanquish the “necromutant” menace that threatens to annihilate human society in  2707." it’s available online. Better yet the “Mutant Chronicles” experience can be simulated by jumbling together memories of  “Aliens ” “Blade 2 ”  “Resident Evil” and the Uwe Boll oeuvre then turning your mental brightness setting to Indistinguishable Gloom." Ron Perlman (Brother Samuel) Devon Aoki (Duval) John Malkovich  (Constantine) Sean Pertwee (Nathan Rooker) Benno Furmann (Steiner) Anna Walton (Severian) and Luis Echegaray (El Jesus)." ” a shamelessly derivative film that opened yesterday without a screening for critics. The movie’s lone New York engagement at the Village East Cinema is one too many —  especially given the steep $12.50 admission price for a lousy movie projected on video in a small theater — and one moreover that suffered technical difficulties during the Friday morning screening on which this review is based." Geoff Boyle; edited by Sean Barton and Alison Lewis; music by Richard Wells; production designer Caroline Greville-Morris; produced by Edward R. Pressman Tim Dennison Peter La Terriere Stephen Belafonte and Pras Michel; released by Magnolia Pictures. In Manhattan at the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes." 
6469
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/24/movies/24tyso.html
and the sound is edited to make it sound as if Mr. Tyson is in dialogue with himself his words echoing and overlapping. These effects emphasize the film’s main point which is that Mr. Tyson is too mercurial too self-contradictory to be easily summed up." risk sexual wantonness and violence. Even in his most interesting projects he frequently loses track of the difference between exploring such fantasies and indulging them but in “Tyson ” his first nonfiction film he is held in check by the irreducible excruciating realness of the man in front of the camera. The transaction between them is charged with a strange kind of magic. The filmmaker allows the fighter to have his unchallenged say to justify condemn and contradict himself. In exchange Mr. Tyson has enabled Mr. Toback to make his best film which is also paradoxically his most personal." Cus D’Amato — Mr. Tyson’s experience of the world has been marked by mistrust and suspicion by a view of other people that is hard and pitiless. They are users operators “leeches ” he says but he rarely claims to be any better. He is only human." and not entirely unjustified to look at Mr. Tyson his left eye ringed by a Maori tattoo his head shaved clean and see a self-pitying self-justifying man who squandered his talent and good fortune and caused much more hurt than his brutal profession required. He started out as a street criminal in Brownsville Brooklyn and was plucked from juvenile detention by Mr. D’Amato and his associates who disciplined the young man’s natural volatility and turned him into a fighter." but few fighters have refined it — have embodied it —  quite as effectively as Mr. Tyson has; he sometimes speaks to Mr. Toback’s camera about the murderous clarity he took into the ring with him. He says he used to imagine his fists smashing through his opponent’s faces and out the backs of their heads. The pure terror in Mr. Berbick’s eyes (and in those of most of the other fighters Mr. Tyson met during his rapid rise and brief reign) suggests that he might well have been capable of wreaking that kind of damage." angry remorseful and bewildered choking up when he recalls Mr. D’Amato whose death in 1985 remains the central tragedy of Mr. Tyson’s life. He relates the details of that life with candor and feeling and also with an analytical ardor that is moving because it reveals his struggle to figure himself out." ” James Toback’s powerful and troubling new documentary is an old television clip showing Mike Tyson on Nov. 22 1986 defeating Trevor Berbick to win the W.B.C. heavyweight title. Just 20 years old Mr. Tyson was the youngest fighter to win that belt and to see him take it is to recall especially in light of the shambling thuggish caricature he would later become what a dazzling and ferocious boxer he was in his prime." but it seems that Mr. Tyson suffers from at least as much as he inspires. “I’m afraid. I’m afraid. I’m afraid ” he says at one point giving voice to his state of mind in the moments before a bout. He also remembers being bullied and humiliated as a child in Brooklyn but in listening to his moody rambling and frequently thoughtful disquisitions on his own life you are struck by intimations of a dread much deeper than the fear of physical harm or loss of face." ” the 1993 documentary she made for NBC but Mr. Toback’s film partly because it restricts itself to Mr. Tyson’s point of view offers a rare and vivid study in the complexity of a single suffering raging soul. It is not an entirely trustworthy movie but it does feel profoundly honest." speaking into the camera as if no one else were around. This produces an effect of almost unnerving intimacy — it is a bit scary to be so close to him — but also an upwelling perhaps unexpected of compassion. It is hard to imagine anyone more radically alone." whom he has known for many years it is unlikely that Mr. Tyson would have opened up in this way. And it is also likely that without Mr. Tyson’s presence the director would have been unlikely to restrain his own self-indulgent impulses." even passionate boxing fans might prefer to forget about Mr. Tyson rather than spend 90 minutes in his company. But “Tyson” is worth seeing even if you have no particular interest in the sport or the man." going back at least to a notorious 1967 essay  on Norman Mailer. As a screenwriter and director — from “Fingers” to “Harvard Man” — he has been preoccupied with brutality vanity and sexual conquest and with the interplay between those elemental impulses and the refinements of art and culture." Larry McConkey; edited by Aaron Yanes; music by Salaam Remi with the song “Legendary” by Nas; produced by Mr. Toback and Damon Bingham; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." self-destructive instincts. His brief first marriage to the actress and model Robin Givens was marked by accusations of abuse and in 1993 he went to prison after being convicted of sexually assaulting a beauty pageant contestant in Indiana. By now he may be better known for ranting and press conferences and for biting Evander Holyfield’s ear during a 1997 fight than for the mighty pugilistic feats of his youth." and his ability to blend quickness with brute strength quickly overpowered his early opponents not many of whom lasted very long in the ring with him. Mr. Berbick a taller heavier and more experienced fighter was done before the second round was over and what the slow-motion video shows most indelibly is the terror on his face before the referee mercifully called a TKO." 
6470
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/24/movies/24thro.html
Mr. Fleck plays and records with gifted local musicians. Early in the film a Ugandan villager insists that the common perception of Africa as a continent ravaged by war and disease is “just a very small bit of what Africa is ” and “Throw Down Your Heart” sets out to prove him right." Mr. Fleck encounters reminders of the slave trade. At a seaside port in what used to be German East Africa he is told that an enslaved African upon seeing the sea and the ship understood that there would be no returning and was advised to “throw down your heart.”" a national idol and phenomenally gifted composer and singer. When Ms. Sangare sings a heartbreaking lament of “a worried songbird” searching for her father you don’t need to know the language to be gripped by the force of her cry." a gentle curious man of few words and formidable talents is a benign presence. In a Ugandan village his banjo accompanies several local musicians playing a 12-foot xylophone. In Tanzania he collaborates with Anania Ngoliga a master of the African thumb piano an instrument consisting of metal tines of varying length attached to a wooden board. It is in Gambia that  Mr. Fleck encounters the akonting a primitive three-string forerunner of the banjo whose preservation is the mission of a troupe known as the Jatta Family." upbeat documentary “Throw Down Your Heart” chronicles the African pilgrimage of the American banjo virtuoso Béla Fleck in search of the origins of his chosen instrument which he sheepishly admits is “associated with a white Southern stereotype.”" Kirsten Johnson; edited by Scott A. Burgess Bela Fleck and Mr. Paladino; produced by Mr. Fleck and Mr. Paladino; released by the Old School Ltd and Argot Pictures. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. In English Lusogan Swahili Jola Bambarra and French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6471
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/24/movies/24divo.html
Il Divo is only one of several popular nicknames for Mr. Andreotti who entered the Italian political arena in the late 1940s and is now 90. As the right-leaning leader of the country’s centrist Christian Democratic party Mr. Andreotti elected to his first term as prime minister in 1972 has been called the Sphinx the Hunchback the Black Pope and Beelzebub. He was appointed a senator for life in 1991." it goes to great lengths to understand what drove Mr. Andreotti to commit his supposed crimes and even follows him into a confessional where he admits his regret over Moro’s death." which began in the late 1970s and continued into the early ’90s “Il Divo” has the tone and style of a blood-soaked comic opera." Mr. Andreotti’s dispassionate facade slowly dissolves and his voice rises as he uses the image of his wife’s innocent eyes to describe his self-justifying megalomaniacal political philosophy. Those eyes he says “have no idea of the deeds that power must commit to ensure the well-being and development of the country ”  as he takes “direct and indirect responsibility” for 236 deaths between 1969 and 1984." which won the Jury Prize at last year’s Cannes festival has an uphill battle in American theaters. Most of its real-life characters are unknown outside Italy and the complicated shadowy relationships among politicians the Mafia and the Vatican are difficult to decipher." a divine task. We must love God greatly to understand how necessary evil is for good. God knows it and I know it too.”" with heavy chiaroscuro and emotionally stirring music (a compendium of Sibelius Fauré Vivaldi and Saint-Saëns along with Beth Orton Teho Teardo and Trio’s “Da Da Da”). As operatic cinema it ranks alongside the best of Martin Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppola." a journalist interviewing Mr. Andreotti lays out the presumed crimes and calls him either the most cunning criminal in the country who never got caught or the most persecuted man in the history of Italy.  In the second Mr. Andreotti imagines   confessing his guilt to his wife Livia (Anna Bonaiuto);  it is the only moment  when his composure cracks." Luca Bigazzi; edited by Cristiano Travaglioli; music by Teho Teardo; production designer Lino Fiorito; produced by Nicola Giuliano Francesca Cima Andrea Occhipinti and Maurizio Coppolecchia; released by Music Box Films and MPI Media Group. At the Lincoln Plaza Broadway at 62nd Street. In Italian with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 57 minutes. This film is not rated." Anna Bonaiuto (Livia Andreotti) Giulio Bosetti (Eugenio Scalfari) Flavio Bucci (Franco Evangelisti) Carlo Buccirosso (Paolo Cirino Pomicino) and Giorgio Colangeli (Salvo Lima)." one by one the sinister loyal-unto-death members of Mr. Andreotti’s Christian Democratic faction are introduced." Claudius ” “The Sopranos” and  the “Godfather” movies. In Mr. Servillo’s portrayal Mr. Andreotti the ultimate Teflon politician  —   he was sentenced to 24 years in prison in 2002 in connection with the assassination of a journalist but was eventually cleared of the charges—  suggests a Peter Sellers parody of Henry Kissinger with the deadeyed gaze of Peter Bogdanovich." I believe in the will of God.” That credo spoken in a dry dispassionate voice drops more than once from the mouth of Giulio Andreotti (Toni Servillo) the scandal-ridden seven-time Italian prime minister in Paolo Sorrentino’s flamboyant biographical fantasy “Il Divo.”" especially Part 3. Although it dips back in time it concentrates on Mr. Andreotti’s later years and ends with his 1999 trial for associating with the Mafia. One of several brilliant set pieces shows the 1992 assassination of Salvo Lima (Giorgio Colangeli) Mr. Andreotti’s Sicilian connection in a scene that intercuts shots of Mr. Andreotti at the race track with the hit man on a motorcycle pursuing his prey." his left-leaning rival for prime minister in March 1978 by members of the Red Brigade. Mr. Andreotti refused to negotiate with the kidnappers and 54 days after the abduction Moro’s bullet-riddled body was discovered in a car." blinking behind thick tortoiseshell glasses the distant traces of a smirk playing on his lips Mr. Andreotti sidles through the corridors of power like a shy undertaker his shoulders hunched his elbows clamped to his sides a security detail trailing him like a funeral cortege." 
6472
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/24/movies/24touc.html
Basak Koklukaya (Saime) Tamer Karadagli (Mustafa) and Tassos Bandis (Vassilis)." ” “main course” and so on. And food is related to marriage astronomy even politics. (Among the insights: “If a diplomat smells of garlic trouble is stirring.”)" ” a wistful Greek film by Tassos Boulmetis that wants to achieve the kind of emotional impact that makes even cynics weep. It’s too carefully constructed for that but it does have some sweet touches and a droll sense of humor." a middle-aged astronomy professor in Athens who learns that his beloved grandfather whom he hasn’t seen since he was a boy is coming for a visit. This sends him and the film on a reminiscence that begins in the early 1960s in Istanbul where a young Fanis was living an idyllic life learning to cook with his grandfather and playing with a cute girl from the neighborhood. All that was disrupted in 1964 when Turkey expelled its Greek citizens; Fanis left with his parents but the grandfather a Turkish citizen stayed." Takis Zervoulakos; edited by Yorgos Mavropsaridis; music by Evanthia Reboutsika; set decorator Olga Leontiadou; produced by Lily Papadopoulos and Artemis Skouloudi; released by Menemsha Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. In Greek with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes. This film is not rated." and Mr. Boulmetis hangs a lot on the shaky premise that four decades later a man can still be obsessed with infatuations formed before he was 10. But the comic moments many involving spice-related sabotage at the dinner table are delightful." 
6473
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/24/movies/24solo.html
Robert Downey Jr. (Steve Lopez) Catherine Keener (Mary Weston) Tom Hollander (Graham Claydon) Nelsan Ellis (David) and LisaGay Hamilton (Jennifer Ayers-Moore)." bristly take on a man whose best intentions eventually collide with difficult truths. The actor is a wonder but he has solid support from Catherine Keener as Lopez’s former wife and editor and Nelsan Ellis as a counselor working in the skid row trenches. Both characters exist mostly to push back at Lopez: they wag an occasional finger and dole out tough love and advice. Mr. Wright might be tempted to indulge in lofty symbolism (there are some unfortunately high-flying pigeons) but these three actors along with the homeless people who worked as extras help keep him tethered closer to the ground. It’s amazing what you can see when you get out of your car and walk: other people for starters." they also tend to be less visible than they are in more geographically compressed urban areas like Manhattan. In 2005 the year Mr. Lopez wrote his first column about Mr. Ayers an estimated 8 000 to 11 000 were living in a 50-block skid row downtown not far from the Los Angeles Times building City Hall and the Walt Disney Concert Hall the Frank Gehry-designed music center that sits on a hill like an enormous silvery flower far from the reach of the Nathaniel Ayerses of this world." “The Soloist” recounts what happened when one of the city’s more privileged denizens  (Robert Downey Jr. as the newsman) met one of its least fortunate (Jamie Foxx as Nathaniel Anthony Ayers). A Juilliard dropout Mr. Ayers ended up on the streets where he pushed a shopping cart filled with trash and bedded down next to rats. This isn’t a milieu in which you might expect to find the British director Joe Wright last seen exploring class and other catastrophes in “Atonement.” Yet he fits fine with “The Soloist ” perhaps because he brings an outsider’s perspective to the material or is just accustomed to navigating the divide between the haves and have-nots." the film is imperfect periodically if unsurprisingly sentimental overly tidy and often very moving. It works hard to make you feel good as is to be expected even as it maintains a strong sense of moral indignation that comes close to an assertion of real politics. Outrage would be too much for a mainstream entertainment like this one to manage. Like its muckraking journalist guide it exploits its subjects for its own purposes.  But its commitment to the material feels honest nowhere more so than in Mr. Downey’s darkly shaded nuanced performance one that deepens this film with its insistence on the fundamental mysteries of human character." ” Lopez helps Ayers reconnect with his music and in tentative fashion a more dignified way of living in the world. There are triumphs and setbacks but these arrive fairly quietly with none of the 101 weeping strings that often come with stories as emotionally fraught as this one (though Beethoven does shake the speakers).  Helping someone off the streets is no small thing but the story of one man is just that: the story of a single individual a point that Mr. Wright underscores repeatedly. Again and again the film plunges into the streets diving into a brackish humanity only to then drift amid the lost and forgotten. In the restrained voice-over that wends through the film Lopez gives witness to what he has seen." ” a big studio movie about a one-man rescue mission look as thin as the crack pipes clamped between their lips. These are a few of the ghosts who haunt Los Angeles that Mecca of Fabulousness where you can go for weeks (and invariably by car) without smelling the reek of other people’s desperation. That helps explain why Hollywood types tend not to set their camera sights on homeless men women and children unless they’re good for a little uplift (as in the Will Smith vehicle “The Pursuit of Happyness”). Homeless people are generally pardon the pun bummers —they also can’t afford tickets." taking a break from the newsroom roar stops to listen to a disheveled man playing a two-stringed violin. In journalistic fashion wonderment morphs into curiosity and then dogged pursuit as he quickly grasps that he’s discovered the makings of a great story. Although Lopez cooks up a column soon after they meet the full account of how Ayers went from a happy childhood in Cleveland to bright promise in New York and then to his Los Angeles hell emerges through seamlessly interspersed economical flashbacks. Lightly tinted as is often customary in movies that return to the past (it’s as if happy childhoods were bathed in honey) the flashbacks are pieces of a puzzle that Lopez becomes increasingly hesitant to solve." based on the book by Steve Lopez; director of photography Seamus McGarvey; edited by Paul Tothill; music by Dario Marianelli; production designer Sarah Greenwood; produced by Gary Foster and Russ Krasnoff; released by DreamWorks Pictures Universal Pictures and Paramount Pictures.  Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes." he discovers difficult to deal with people in pain. Although they meet cute in the shadow of a looming statue of Beethoven (dedicated to the founder of the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra) the journalist and his story don’t settle into predictability largely because Ayers is intrinsically volatile. Given to verbose bursts and abrupt silences he doesn’t so much talk to Lopez (he doesn’t always make eye contact either) as just talk and talk the words pouring out like water until something (rage? fear? chemistry?) stops the flow. Mr. Foxx often seems uncomfortable in his role wavering between pathos and something harder and truer but his scatlike delivery of some of Ayers’s twisting ropes of words can be mesmerizing." 
6474
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/24/movies/24nurs.html
then “Nursery University” is for you. Following five Manhattan families as they navigate the cutthroat competition for elite nursery school spots for their pampered progeny this knowing documentary from Marc H. Simon and Matthew Makar shows that in New York City at least exclusivity breeds contentment." ” says Heidi an entrepreneur determined to save her son Jackson from “a public school in Harlem.” Cut to Harlem where the Ragoonath family immigrants from Trinidad and Tobago share Heidi’s determination if not her ability to finance it." 000 for  seven meetings thank you very much) may debunk the belief that these schools are essential for the Ivy League bound but try telling that to the frazzled parents. Anxiously speed-dialing for applications and preparing for the all-important family interviews (“Tell them you like the New York Times crossword puzzle ” one father jokingly advises his  winsome toddler) otherwise sane adults succumb to anger and frustration." Samuel Henriques and Bob Richman; edited by Miki Watanabe Milmore and Tom Patterson; music by Chris Hajian; released by Argyle Productions and Elementary Films in association with Variance Films. At the Imaginasian Theater 239 East 59th Street between 2nd and 3rd Avenues. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." the filmmakers keep the tone breezy and the view micro. For little Jackson and his peers privilege is a concept not yet understood." 
6475
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/24/movies/24nest.html
a successful playwright responds by obsessing over a younger woman (Eugenia Capizzano) becoming increasingly testy about his celebrity and slipping into daydreams. Martha a more successful human being decides to go back to school enriching both her intellectual and social  lives." like many couples before them are unexpectedly thrown back upon themselves forced to question their identities and relationships now that parenting is not their most immediate concern." whose self-involved tedium — and the movie’s — is occasionally interrupted by fantasy sequences. A friendship struck with a neuroscientist (Arturo Goetz) leads to some fussing over Leonardo’s psychology. But it’s pretty clear that the main crisis of this unexceptional man as he deals with a routine middle-age rite of passage is the unremarkable drama he’s been written into." Cecilia Roth (Martha) Arturo Goetz (Dr. Spivack) Ines Efron (Julia) Jean Pierre Noher (Fernando) Ron Richter (Ianib) Carlos Bermejo (Marchetti) and Eugenia Capizzano (Violeta)." Hugh Colace; edited by Alejandro Brodersohn; music by Nico Cota and Santiago Rio; art director Aili Chen; produced by Mr. Burman and Diego Dubcovsky; released by Outsider Pictures. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. In Spanish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." this Argentine film makes the mistake of assuming that Leonardo is the more interesting of these two. The movie is largely told through his jealous insecure eyes but the things we see at the margins — namely the activities of Martha — compel our sympathy and interest more." 
6476
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/24/movies/24info.html
and also Graham’s girlfriend Christie (Amber Heard) and also — as he points out just in case we were having trouble identifying the naked blond bodies piling up in various beds — Graham. But such doings are not on Graham’s mind. He is in a moral crisis: “I want someone to tell me what’s good. And I want someone to tell me what’s bad.” He goes on to ask what happens if there’s no one around to tell you what’s good and what’s bad." based on the novel by Mr. Ellis; director of photography Petra Korner; edited by Robert Brakey; music by Christopher Young; production designer Cecilia Montiel; produced by Marco Weber; released by Senator Distribution. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." intriguingly enough like a Billy Idol video shot by  Antonioni “The  Informers” moves through a few rounds of passionless coupling and passive-aggressive conversation never provoking a reaction more intense than mild irritation or moderate boredom. The performances run the gamut from twitchy to catatonic and the stoned stiffness of the actors seems to have less to do with the affectlessness of the characters than with their own confusion." ” of which Graham and Martin are but two of a dozen or so principal inhabitants. They are neither the most messed up nor the least interesting characters to  surface in Gregor Jordan’s puzzling and tedious adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis’s book of short stories. But these two golden boys like everyone else in this wasteland of privilege and hedonism —  “Los Angeles 1983 ” we’re told in case we were having trouble placing the palm trees the asymmetrical top-heavy haircuts and the post-punk soundtrack — are not so much characters as symbols of well of some pretty bad stuff." but not without interest — the numb plainness of the prose at times achieves a morose clarity and the deadpan brain-dead dialogue is tweaked with satire. Nearly every time Mr. Jordan working from a script by Mr. Ellis and Nicholas Jarecki tries for similar effects he goes badly awry so that you snicker when the movie is trying to be poignant and groan when it aims to make a joke." cigarettes and group sex. Their parents prefer alcohol prescription medicines and adultery. The children regard the parents with icy contempt. Occasionally a flicker of guilt passes over a parental face but it just may be that the parents are being played by seasoned actors many with careers going back to the ’80s and so can sometimes inject a grain or two of nuance into the glazed dazed dull surface of the film." sex drug use and violence. And it’s still boring." Kim Basinger (Laura Sloan) Mickey Rourke (Peter) Winona Ryder (Cheryl Moore) Jon Foster (Graham Sloan) Amber Heard (Christie) Chris Isaak (Les Price) Austin Nichols (Martin) Lou Taylor Pucci (Tim Price) Mel Raido (Bryan Metro) Rhys Ifans (Roger) Brad Renfro (Jack) and Jessica Stroup (Rachel)." playing Graham’s mom. Also Billy Bob Thornton (as her husband a movie-studio bigwig) Winona Ryder (as his mistress a television newscaster) Chris Isaak and alarmingly if also amusingly Mickey Rourke. Mr. Rourke plays one of the few nonwealthy people in “The Informers.” He drives a van sports some strange facial hair and kidnaps a child." all of that. And some other stuff I probably forgot about. But so did they." 
6477
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/24/movies/24figh.html
waiting for something to happen. And it is in its slackest moments that the real poetry of “Fighting” breaks through. Mr. Montiel has an odd stuttery sense of pacing an eccentric almost haphazard approach to framing and a fondness for loosely structured scenes driven by improvised dialogue. Either he has no idea what he’s doing or he’s in possession of a vividly idiosyncratic directing style. Having been unexpectedly delighted by “Saints” and “Fighting” —  which both swim through seas of cliché and emerge sparkling and fresh — I’m inclined to choose the second  possibility." in contrast seem dull and superfluous. The characters in “Fighting” are not flying around in planes or lounging on penthouse terraces — though Shawn does have a climactic fight in a half-renovated luxury apartment high above Wall Street — and Mr. Montiel’s heart beats strongest at street level where people are engaged in an endless restless hustle." but the story is really beside the point. Mr. Montiel is certainly in no hurry to tell it and he lingers over his scenes holding them open so that the actors can walk around have a snack and explore the odd corners of their characters." Terrence Howard (Harvey Boarden) Luis Guzmán (Martinez) Zulay Henao (Zulay) Roger Guenveur Smith (Jack Dancing) Altagracia Guzman (Alba) and Brian White (Evan Hailey)" in effect musical numbers choreographed with a certain brutish wit. And the simple plot of “Fighting” seems also to belong to an old musical about a humble young man chasing big dreams on tough streets. Or more to the point the picture is a pugilistic cousin to the “Step Up” dance-competition franchise which helped put Mr. Tatum’s career on its upward trajectory." there’s a lot of drama. Shawn is brought into the fight scene by a semisuccessful underworld fixer named Harvey (Terrence Howard) who is mixed up with some much rougher characters including Martinez  (Luis Guzmán) and Jack (Roger Guenveur Smith) who was surely an honor student at the Christopher Walken Academy of Curious Diction. Shawn falls for a pretty nightclub waitress named Zulay (Zulay Henao) and also runs into Evan (Brian White) a rival from back home who brings up troubling memories." literal affair and in the case of Dito Montiel’s new film you would not be wrong. Without undue fuss or grandiosity it tells the story of Shawn MacArthur (Channing Tatum) a muscular young fellow from Birmingham Ala. who comes to the big city and well fights." some actual suitcases full of money show up but “Fighting” is one of the most relaxed movies about chasing after a big payday that I’ve ever seen. Its ambitions are modest and it doesn’t pursue them with excessive zeal which may be why improbably it feels like a winner." Shawn works his way through the underground fight clubs in different neighborhoods where well-heeled patrons of various ethnicities (Russian in Brooklyn Hispanic in the Bronx) pay money to watch guys punch one another." Stefan Czapsky; edited by Jake Pushinsky and Saar Klein; music by David Wittman and Jonathan Elias; production designer Thérèse Deprez; produced by Kevin Misher; released by Rogue Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." heartfelt and achingly autobiographical “Guide to Recognizing Your Saints ” Mr. Montiel has an almost limitless affection for ordinary sidewalks coffee shops and apartment buildings. (His interior locations are authentically cluttered and narrow something you don’t often see in New York-set movies released by major studios.)" after all and a fable doesn’t necessarily have to — but it breathes with a rough exuberant realism that you rarely see in movies of its kind. This is partly a result of its having been filmed on actual unprettified New York locations rather than on Canadian streets that while perfectly pleasant could never be Manhattan." and he and Mr. Tatum connect like Joe Buck and Ratso Rizzo in a cleaned-up update of “Midnight Cowboy.” Everyone else rambles mumbles and kibitzes and every once in a while Altagracia Guzman  (“Raising Victor Vargas”) shows up playing Zulay’s grandmother and walks off with a scene as if it were a suitcase full of money sitting unattended on the table." Mr. Tatum (who also appeared in “A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints ” Mr. Montiel’s debut film) has what it takes to be a real movie star. Not just an impressive physique and the physicality of a young Marlon Brando but also a surprising sensitivity a lightness of manner that makes him credible even in preposterous situations." 
6478
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/22/movies/22eart.html
so the emphasis is on awwww-filled moments — mandarin ducklings flapping adorably from nest to forest floor polar bear cubs slithering on ungainly paws — captured in spectacularly high definition. Even when the fangs are visible (a great white shark gobbling a sea lion in balletic slow motion) the blood is not thanks to  tasteful and customer-sensitive editing. There are no creepy-crawlies on this earth." ” plundered largely from the BBC Natural History Unit’s magnificent “Planet Earth ” the filmmakers Alastair Fothergill and Mark Linfield take the temperature of our planet and conclude that it is rising. Blame James Earl Jones’s insistently cozy narration if the film makes that elevation seem as natural a phenomenon as the turning of the tides." “Earth” records the expanding deserts and shrinking rainfalls with well-meaning diligence but without explanation. The plight of the thirsty African elephants (every dehydrated fold lovingly captured) and starving humpbacked whales seems as removed from human action as a solar eclipse." you may leave the theater feeling as fuzzy — and ultimately as powerless — as those doomed polar bears." 
6479
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/22/movies/22tree.html
Song Hee Kim (Bin) Soo Ah Lee (Mom) Mi Hyang Kim (Big Aunt) and Boon Tak Park (Grandma)." whose first feature was “In Between Days ” a minimalist exercise about an emotionally isolated teenager has chosen a more accessible subject for her new film: the desertion of two children. Her style also feels more approachable: the film opens with close-ups of Jin (the serious-eyed Hee Yeon Kim making her film debut) attentively following a lesson at school a cozy perspective from which Ms. Kim never budges. (For much of the story she is the only grown-up watching over the girls.) Jin and Bin (Song Hee Kim) live with their worried-looking mother (Soo Ah Lee) in a cramped Seoul apartment until suddenly they don’t having been carted off to live with her sister-in-law whom they call Big Aunt (Mi Hyang Kim)." Big Aunt doesn’t come equipped with a warm enveloping maternal bosom. She is negligent cranky resentful and given to voluble complaint. She doesn’t appear to want to care for the girls which in view of her dipsomaniac tendencies seems reasonable even wise." Anne Misawa; edited by Ms. Kim and Bradley Rust Gray; music by Asobi Seksu; production designer See Hee Kim; produced by Mr. Gray Ben Howe Lars Knudsen Jay Van Hoy and Ms. Kim; released by Oscilloscope Laboratories. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. In Korean with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." at the mother’s prodding she takes them to their grandparents’ farm partly because this development promises changes in scenery tone and point of view along with the promise of narrative tension. The scenery does change but the tone remains unmodulated the point of view claustrophobic and no narrative tension emerges from the drifty prettily shot repetitive images of the children navigating everyday life. The grandmother (Boon Tak Park a nonprofessional) does prove kind." exchanges and tears which she captures with a low-placed camera and hushed sense of intimacy Ms. Kim quickly pulls you into this Lilliputian world. You see what they see learn what they learn. The problem is that while the children are lovely because they are children there is nothing inherently interesting about them or their lives. Their predicament is the stuff of melodrama but from the loose (if linear) narrative and pockets of ambiguity (why did the father leave?) it’s clear that Ms. Kim has positioned her film in a different tradition one that borrows heavily from Yasujiro Ozu (specifically with the transitional shots tucked between scenes) Vittorio De Sica and other non-Hollywood masters even as the story makes a beeline toward some unsurprising uplift." though they often appear as cold remote and mysterious as the stars in the sky. The film the second feature from the Brooklyn-based writer and director So Yong Kim tells a quiet carefully observed story about two young girls — 6-year-old Jin and her 4-year old sister Bin — who become orphans of a kind after their mother leaves them with relatives. Shot in South Korea where Ms. Kim was born (her family immigrated to America when she was 12) it has the tang of real life though this is realism that has been filtered through 60 or so years of world art cinema." 
6480
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/17/movies/17leon.html
Jean-Paul Belmondo (Léon Morin) Irène Tunc (Christine) Nicole Mirel (Sabine) Gisèle Grimm (Lucienne) and Monique Hennessy (Arlette)." based on the novel by Béatrix Beck; with a new translation and subtitles by Lenny Borger; director of photography Henri Decaë; edited by Jacqueline Meppiel Nadine Trintignant and Marie-Josèphe Yoyotte; music by Martial Solal and Albert Raisner; produced by Georges de Beauregard and Carlo Ponti; released by Rialto Pictures. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas West Village. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 57 minutes. This film is not rated." where she has decided to tell off a priest for no real reason (though cynicism politics and boredom play their part). Inside a confessional — from the name on the door she guesses that the priest within will be poor — she repeats Marx’s dictum that religion is the opiate of the people. To her surprise Léon Morin responds openly to her gambit. He suggests they continue their discussion which they do during regular evening meetings characterized by theological discussions and increasingly electric contact — a fleeting touch two hands roughly grasping shoulders a garment grazing a breast. With his intense physicality Mr. Belmondo another star of the French New Wave brings a shock of the carnal to every encounter." it’s as if you were watching fathers leaving for that day’s work." though she feels for both. The point is that she feels passionate in a world marked by annihilating brutality: she is staking her claim to life amid so much death. In 1961 the critic Fereydoun Hoveyda wrote that the numerous dissolves in the film not only signify the passage of time as dissolves often do “but also the disarray of an individual consciousness and of an epoch.”  Despite the apparent unifying function of Barny’s voice-over the world of “Léon Morin Priest” is one of profound disarray — fractured unstable uncertain. In one scene Melville points the camera at a storefront window in which you see the reflected image of German soldiers arresting passers-by. No wonder Barny goes looking for God even if all she finds is a muscular tease with a flattened nose." who died in 1973 adapted the story one of his few to feature a strong woman from Béatrix Beck’s autobiographical novel about the widow of a Jewish Communist. Emmanuelle Riva perhaps best remembered for her starring role in Alain Resnais’s “Hiroshima Mon Amour” (1959) plays Barny the widow. Bluntly outspoken she lives in a tiny flat having been relocated to a village in the Alps by her employer a correspondence school. She and her young daughter France who has been squirreled away with local farmers enjoy a cautious if strangely untroubled existence. Barny appears relatively indifferent to the Italians and then Germans who overrun the village though soon after the story opens she and some other women arrange to have their children baptized." her reasons for meeting with the priest remain largely implied if obvious. In an interview Melville said that she becomes converted in order to have sex a perversely crude description of a relationship he develops with nuance and fascinating ambiguity. Barny’s sexual desires add to that ambiguity. She confesses that she adores one of her supervisors Sabine (Nicole Mirel a stern beauty in the mode of Barbara Steele) whose small knowing smiles imply worlds of possibility. In one startling office scene Sabine stands behind the seated Barny and leans forward draping her breasts against the other woman’s back. The priest says the lack of men accounts for these yearnings though Barny’s description of Sabine (“She’s like an Amazon”) suggests otherwise." there is no sense of menace during these scenes which Melville handles with a light touch lingering over the bright-day images of one mother bathing a child as Barny shushes her own giddily laughing girl. Life during wartime he reminds you is not simply men shooting at one another but also women tending to their children." PRIEST" the Resistance fighters yes but also the gangsters and the detectives who pursue them. This strange often thrilling always surprising film — “Léon Morin Priest” in English — was Melville’s sixth feature  and almost the exact midpoint between early successes like “Bob le Flambeur” (1956) about a gentleman thief organizing the heist of a lifetime and “Army of Shadows” (1969) his late-career masterpiece about the Resistance.  Given his interest in the war it’s understandable that he was drawn to “Léon Morin” and its story of life during the occupation. (It’s only now receiving an American theatrical release.) The revelation is that resistance here is located in the push and pull between a Roman Catholic priest and one of his female parishioners." Prêtre” looks like a typical Jean-Pierre Melville tough at least from the chin up. There are the darting eyes at once crystalline and unreadable and the pillowy mouth that alternately seduces and punishes. Most of all there is that nose a great squashed appendage that sits on the actor’s long face like a threat and a dare and on which you can almost see the traces of violently thrown balls and fists. It’s a face that’s initially difficult to reconcile with the priestly white collar and black cassock that complete the portrait." 
6481
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/17/movies/17viol.html
” which is based on  real events that took place in late 2000 has the quasi-documentary feel of a well-made television drama. Directed by Tim Disney from a screenplay written by its producer Bill Haney the film  is beautifully acted by Ms. Beharie whose high-strung character is no angel. It is almost impossible for Dee to control her anger justifiable though it may be. Much of her fury is directed at Darrell Hughes (Xzibit) the father of her two youngest children with whom she is  waging a bitter custody battle. Making matters worse he lives next door with a sinister girlfriend who Dee believes is abusing the children when they visit." as is her concern for the welfare of her children. Also heroic are her minister Reverend Sanders (Charles S. Dutton) and David Cohen (Tim Blake Nelson) the lawyer from the American Civil Liberties Union enlisted   to defend Dee and sue the district attorney for racial discrimination." ” when Dee Roberts (Nicole Beharie) a feisty 24-year-old African-American woman is arrested handcuffed and roughly dragged by the police from the diner where she works your heart sinks. We have already watched a police task force conduct a military-style drug raid on Arlington Springs the housing project in Melody Tex. where she lives with her mother Alma (Alfre Woodard) and four children. You grit your teeth in expectation of more cruelty to come." Steve Yedlin; edited by Nancy Richardson Curtiss Clayton and Terilyn A. Shropshire; music by Teddy Castellucci; production designer Monroe Kelly; produced by Mr. Haney; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." Dee is stunned to learn she is being charged not for the hundreds of dollars in parking tickets that she owes but with distributing narcotics in a school zone.  Although she is not carrying drugs and none are found in her home the prosecution claims to have a witness.  Dee’s court-appointed  lawyer urges her to take a plea bargain and agree to a  10-year suspended sentence with a small fine rather than risk serving a 16- to 25-year prison term. When Dee hotly refuses even her mother thinks she is a fool." Cohen lays out his interpretation of the local justice system’s oppressive modus vivendi. Drug task forces use military tactics to terrorize black people he says. Since federal money goes to counties that convict the most people plea bargains in criminal cases are aggressively pursued. For most people charged with drug-related crimes the penalties for a conviction after not taking a plea are so frightening that many innocent people plead guilty." Byron Hill (Malcolm Barrett) build their case there are no surprises. A more manipulative film would have played up the drama of securing the damning evidence against  Beckett which is belatedly introduced at his deposition. The movie’s staunchly liberal point of view extends to the 2000  presidential election which is shown unfolding in the background. Al Gore’s concession speech is used to suggest that the systemic racism in Melody is a symptom of a broader climate of injustice." Calvin Beckett who appears to run the town. Played by Michael O’Keefe as a slicker contemporary version of the hulking pig-eyed bullies portrayed in earlier films by Rod Steiger and Rip Torn Beckett is shrewd enough not to vent his racism publicly but it still leaks out of him like a bad smell. Navigating between the two sides is Sam Conroy (Will Patton) a local lawyer and former assistant district attorney who has a guilty conscience about past misdeeds." and a scene of domestic violence." Tim Blake Nelson (David Cohen) Will Patton (Sam Conroy) Michael O’Keefe (Calvin Beckett) Xzibit (Darrell Hughes) Malcolm Barrett (Byron Hill) Charles S. Dutton (Reverend Sanders) and Alfre Woodard (Alma Roberts)." 
6482
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/17/movies/17lemo.html
Ali Suliman (Ziad Daud) Rona Lipaz-Michael (Mira Navon) Doron Tavory (Israel Navon) Tarik Copti (Abu Hussam) Makram J. Khoury (Abu Camal) and Amos Lavie (Captain Jacob)." whose marriage to Navon has withered strongly suspects that he is philandering and begins acting like a prisoner in her own home. Addressing the issue of the grove Navon speaks the same evasive double talk that he does with Mira in discussing their marriage. When out of frustration she gives an interview expressing her sympathy with Salma Navon is so infuriated that he pressures her to sign a paper taking back her words." ” directed by the Israeli filmmaker Eran Riklis whose 2004 movie “The Syrian Bride ”  explored Israeli-Arab border tensions is also a wrenching richly layered feminist allegory as well as a geopolitical one. As such its details are not to be taken too literally. The screenplay by Mr. Riklis and Suha Arraf the Palestinian-Israeli woman who wrote “The Syrian Bride” with Mr. Riklis finds a deep commonality between Salma and Mira. Victimized by patriarchal attitudes toward war and sex both begin to break the rules." Israel Navon (Doron Tavory) moves into a fancy new house that abuts the grove. Overnight a watchtower is constructed and security guards and soldiers begin patrolling the property." cultured wife Mira (Rona Lipaz-Michael) moved into the new house than Salma receives an official letter informing her that the grove poses a security threat from terrorists hiding among the trees; as a military necessity they must be uprooted. The letter which Salma has translated because she neither speaks nor writes Hebrew loftily offers to compensate her for her loss while mentioning that because of recent legislation there is no legal obligation to do so. She weeps at the news." the proud handsome 45-year-old Palestinian woman at the center of “Lemon Tree ” an allegory of Israeli-Palestinian strife has the misfortune of living in the wrong place at the wrong time. Widowed for 10 years with a son in the United States Salma earns a meager living from a lemon grove on the Green Line separating Israel from the occupied territories of the West Bank. The grove has been in her family for 50 years." she takes her campaign to the Israeli Supreme Court. She also refuses to accept a decree that the grove is off limits and at the risk of being shot occasionally climbs the fence put up around it to water the trees and gather lemons. Some of the trees are already beginning to die. As word of her campaign to keep the grove spreads her case becomes a news media cause célèbre that threatens to embarrass Navon." Rainer Klausmann; edited by Tova Ascher; music by Habib Shehadeh Hanna; production designer Miguel Merkin; produced by Bettina Brokemper Antoine de Clermont-Tonnerre Michael Eckelt and Mr. Riklis; released by IFC Films. In Arabic and Hebrew with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes. This film is not rated." this movie suggests the strife will continue." the film implies that the combined strength of two  principled women is still no match for the powers that be. Ms. Abbass’s Salma is particularly impressive.  With this movie and “The Visitor ” for which Richard Jenkins received an Oscar nomination she has emerged as a formidable international presence with  the magnetism of a Middle Eastern Lena Olin." the handsome divorced 34-year-old Palestinian lawyer who pleads her cause. Their bond is public enough to incur the wrath of a boorish neighbor Abu Camal (Makram J. Khoury) who sternly admonishes Salma for desecrating the memory and honor of her husband whose portrait still hangs on the wall. Sexually the film is very circumspect." it portrays the Israelis who wield more military power as abusive and arrogant in the way that any country with superior weapons and armies inevitably appears. The security guards on Navon’s property behave like strutting goons — only too eager to turn their guns on the first thing that moves — or clowns like the watchtower guard nicknamed Quickie who dozes off while on duty." 
6483
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/17/movies/17ther.html
the youthful rogue and the forgetful codger all live at once." known onstage as the Amazing Clarence has scooted around the English countryside for untold years demonstrating magic in a rattletrap camper painted like a circus wagon. When he pulls up at Lark Hall a ramshackle seaside house that has been turned into a retirement home he knows it is the final stop in his peripatetic itinerary." now dead whom he misses terribly Clarence also imparts some sad life lessons to the boy. The first serious sign of his mental slippage is a party at which he gives a magic show that goes terribly awry." which teeters between comedy and pathos is essentially a two-character exercise from the “Harold and Maude” school of tear-jerking whimsy in which Clarence and Edward (Bill Milner) a 10-year-old boy at loose ends form an unlikely friendship. Edward is the mopey rebellious son of Lark Hill’s perpetually harried owners (Anne-Marie Duff and David Morrissey). Surrounded by decrepitude and alienated from his parents who evicted him from his bedroom to take in another boarder Edward has developed an unhealthy fascination with spiritualism. When a resident seems close to death the boy is right there with his tape recorder to capture any aural evidence of the soul’s ascent into the hereafter." Rosemary Harris Sylvia Syms and Peter Vaughan who play Lark Hall residents in varying states of dottiness and physical disrepair and these cameos are played uncomfortably close to farce. Peter Harness’s screenplay set in 1987 throws in a half-baked subplot in which Edward’s father endangers his marriage by lunging pathetically after Lark Hall’s 18-year-old housekeeper (Linzey Cocker)." Anne-Marie Duff (Mum) David Morrissey (Dad) Rosemary Harris (Elsie) Elizabeth Spriggs (Prudence) Bill Milner (Edward) Peter Vaughan (Bob) Linzey Cocker (Tanya) Sylvia Syms (Lilian)   and Leslie Phillips (Reg)." Rob Hardy; edited by Trevor Waite; music by Joby Talbot; production designer Kave Quinn; produced by David Heyman Peter Saraf and Mark Turtletaub; released by Story Island Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." a grumpy old traveling magician nearing the end of his life in John Crowley’s film “Is Anybody There?” Mr. Caine’s face may have aged (he is now 76) but from the glint in his eyes and his snaggle-toothed smirk he is still Alfie Elkins the mischievous devil-may-care seducer of “Alfie ” the 1966 hit film with which his name is still synonymous. Innocent he is not." 
6484
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/17/movies/17step.html
equally simple idea when he tape-recorded the confessions dreams and fears of gypsy hoofers and chirpers and turned their reflections on show business life into the basis of a show that ran for 15 years and collected just about every prize there is. (It also collected hard feelings from some of the people whose voices and lives Mr. Bennett used but that’s another story.)" and it pays tribute to the durability and continued relevance of “A Chorus Line ” which first opened in New York in 1975 before many of the performers in the movie were born." ” a new documentary by James D. Stern and Adam Del Deo is a bit like walking through a hall of mirrors. Life imitates art art reflects life and after a while the distinctions threaten quite pleasantly to blur altogether. The film follows a group of mostly young dancers and singers auditioning for parts in the recent Broadway revival of “A Chorus Line ” a musical which is itself built around the auditions of 17 mostly young Broadway-besotted dancers and singers." ” with brilliant music by Marvin Hamlisch and lyrics by Edward Kleban and a canny book by James Kirkwood and Nicholas Dante gives voice to deep widely shared anxieties and aspirations but its big themes are grounded in the lives voices and bodies of individuals. And so the thousands of auditioners who show up at the start of “Every Little Step ” for the first casting call — and who over the following months are winnowed down to scores then dozens and finally a few singular sensations — are hardly faceless or interchangeable." there is only time to become acquainted with a few of them and the filmmakers concentrating on the moment-to-moment drama of the casting process rather than on back stories or personalities introduce us to the performers by way of the characters they are hoping to play. We learn some names and a bit of biography — one woman is the daughter of a retired ballet dancer; another arrives by bus from New Jersey — but most of what we glean about the potential cast members comes from their closeness to the archetypes represented by Kristine Mike Cassie and the others Mr. Bennett and his collaborators delivered from anonymity." whose rich history is recalled between auditions for the revival has become such a touchstone because it perfectly captures both the cruelty and the marvelousness of life in the theater. Mr. Bennett who died in 1987 appears in archival clips looking like a slightly jaded elf combining a weary knowingness with an ardent and undiminished capacity for wonder." who is interviewed in “Every Little Step” — is a step away from has-been status and desperate to keep working. Others sing and speak about their childhood love of dancing and one Paul delivers a heart-wrenching soliloquy about coming out as a gay man and an artist. The casting of this part is one of the most touching and least suspenseful moments in the film thanks to Jason Tam’s tour de force audition. As a general rule if you reduce an entire casting committee to tears you’ll probably get the part." for that matter “A Chorus Line” itself) and television reality shows in which ordinary people use their talents to scramble for the spotlight. But those programs are spectacles of amateurism chasing after celebrity an impulse that could not be further from what Mr. Stern and Mr. Del Deo taking their cues from Mr. Bennett set out to honor. The 17 members of that chorus line — and the thousands like them including those who dream of playing them — are professionals and one of the names they give to the glory they seek is work. The other is love." who choreographed the earlier show along with Mr. Bennett and Baayork Lee a fellow choreographer who originated the role of Connie a tiny dancer with big desires. They and their colleagues survey the contenders with a mixture of compassion and rigor that quietly underscores the wised-up romanticism of “A Chorus Line.”" 
6485
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/17/movies/17slee.html
while they allow such exploitation also enable intoxication intimacy and communication both sinister and benign. Their ambiguous function is to make the worst features of this dystopian world possible even as they make living in it somewhat more bearable." which makes thrifty use of some basic but effective special effects follows Memo (Luis Fernando Peña) a young man from Oaxaca who travels north to Tijuana after the death of his father. A self-taught computer hacker this anxious wanderer is looking for work of some kind but also perhaps for vengeance. His dad was killed by a military drone defending corporate-controlled water from “aqua-terrorists.”" Leonor Varela (Luz Martinez) Jacob Vargas (Rudy Ramírez) Tenoch Huerta (David Cruz) Metztli Adamina (Dolores Cruz) and José Concepción Macías (Miguel Cruz)." and the performances — the third major character is a drone pilot played by Jacob Vargas —  are earnest and dutiful. But there is sufficient ingenuity in the film’s main ideas to hold your attention and the political implications of the allegorical story are at once obvious and subtle. Mr. Rivera’s vision of Tijuana in particular is pointed and intriguing an unsettlingly plausible extrapolation of what that city already represents." Lisa Rinzler; music by Tomandandy; production designer Miguel Ángel Álvarez; produced by Anthony Bregman; released by Maya Entertainment. In Spanish and English with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." ” the feature directing debut of Alex Rivera (who wrote the screenplay with David Riker) is an unusually thoughtful science fiction film using the speculative energy of the genre to explore some troubling and complex contemporary issues. Set mostly in Mexico it imagines a future in which local water rights have been snatched up by multinational corporations and in which people connect to a virtual-reality cybernetwork by means of “nodes ” electronic jacks implanted in their arms and necks." a beautiful stranger who hooks him up with black-market nodes but whose kindness cloaks an ulterior motive." Tijuana in “Sleep Dealer ” has become a magnet for migrant workers whose labor by means of those nodes can be exported north while their bodies stay in Mexico." 
6486
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/17/movies/17seve.html
Burr Steers whose other credits include “Igby Goes Down” and stints directing TV shows keeps people and things moving fast enough so that you don’t have time to worry about  the details like  the inanity of the story. Like  any savvy director charged with a high-end advertising campaign he keeps his main product — Mr. Efron — front and center and nicely lighted. Even so Mr. Steers also understands the value of his supporting team particularly Mr. Lennon whose character enters geek heaven upon sighting Mike’s principal Ms. Masterson (Melora Hardin). Mike’s transformation might be magical but it’s this pocket-size portrait of a sexy thinking adult woman who can seamlessly  go from wearing  high-heeled boots to  pointy elf ears that’s out of this world." Tim Suhrstedt; edited by Padraic McKinley; music by Rolfe Kent; production designer Garreth Stover; produced by Adam Shankman and Jennifer Gibgot; released by New Line Cinema/ Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." does he work it   — strutting across the screen like a teen idol (like Zac Efron!) playing the star with an easy smile insouciant haircut and even bared muscles: his character Mike is shooting hoops without a shirt in the very first shot of the movie. (Cue the shrieks.) The story written by Jason Filardi pivots emotionally on the moment when Mike turned his back on a potential basketball scholarship and all the good things that would have presumably come with it because he decided to dry the eyes of his weeping girlfriend Scarlet (Allison Miller as the teenager Leslie Mann as the adult).  From the age of adult Mike and Scarlet’s oldest teenager it’s clear that back in 1989 they were Just Saying Yes." of course the most visible star of the “High School Musical” juggernaut which has taken him from the Disney Channel to the familiar rite of passage as host of “Saturday Night Live.” The maturation of Zac Efron the bid to have him gently (lucratively) transition out of the grip of his pubescent fan base and into the  wider commercial paw without pulling a Lindsay Lohan partly explains “17 Again.” Even the movie’s premise — an adult transformed into his adolescent self — speaks to this uneasy transitional phase though it seems a little cruel to the fans who must prepare for the inevitable that someone decided an exhausted-looking Matthew Perry should play their shining boy at 37." who starred in the first “Freaky Friday” (1976) as a girl who switches bodies with her mother. Ms. Foster’s preternatural maturity and husky voice made the part work for much the same reasons that the 2003 remake with Ms. Lohan did: you believed there were old(er) souls trapped inside those young bodies. Ms. Foster and Ms. Lohan’s unforced talent helped. A confident physical performer Mr. Efron isn’t in their league and it’s too early to tell if he ever will be. Although he can hit all the emotional notes in a scene there is a level of calculation behind his performance and piercing blue eyes a protective barrier or just self-consciousness that needs dismantling." I feel confident that there are others who are curious about this weighty question of culture.  For starters Zac Efron is a he a Californian by birth and of drinking age in the state of his birth (21). He is pale pliable and very pretty (picture-perfect for bedroom walls) with a curtain of hair that sweeps across his forehead and well-manicured dark brows as if gently stirred by the collective exhalation of a thousand   virgins. I’m fairly certain I heard that exhalation — I certainly heard the shrieks — when I watched his new movie “17 Again.”" meaning girls can ruin your life — it’s no surprise that Scarlet doesn’t get the chance to revisit her past and tell her boyfriend to put on a condom. Instead the adult Mike clicks his heels or rather falls into a badly computer-generated whirlpool trying to chase a stranger with a menacing twinkle (Brian Doyle-Murray) who guides him to  his journey. Suddenly Mike is 17 again and sloshing  inside his business suit. He takes refuge with his best friend Ned (a hilarious Thomas Lennon nearly sprinting away with the movie) a former late-20th-century high school dweeb turned early-21st-century master of the universe who lives in a Modernist  house crammed with pricey boy toys and sleeps in a “Star Wars” landspeeder." Leslie Mann (Scarlet adult) Thomas Lennon (Ned Gold) Michelle Trachtenberg (Maggie) Sterling Knight (Alex) Melora Hardin (Principal Jane Masterson) Brian Doyle-Murray (Janitor) Allison Miller (Scarlet teenager) and Matthew Perry (Mike O’Donnell adult)." 
6487
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/17/movies/17pere.html
womanizing and relentless narcissism make for less appealing material." a famous astrophysicist who returns to Moscow after emigrating to America. Set in 1992 the movie unfurls in the form of a pseudo-memoir narrated by Greenberg whose musings on the collapse of the Soviet Union and  wide-eyed scientific theorizing are interspersed with episodes from his obnoxious personal life." in his portentously hammy way as Greenberg’s scientific mentor. Ally Sheedy  plays one of many women improbably infatuated with the protagonist." politics and science sophisticated structure and incompetent drama. The filmmaker Slava Tsukerman is a maximalist best known for the 1982 post-punk freakout “Liquid Sky ” and his new movie throws plenty at the screen. He’s got a lot to get off his chest about the social and political transformations of the Gorbachev era and he’s worked up a memorable if confused way to think them through." Mikhail Iskandarov; edited by Arnold Schlissel; music by Alexander Zhurbin; production designer Mikhail Rubtsov; produced by Mr. Tsukerman and Nina V. Kerova; released by REF Productions. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated." Sam Robards (Sasha Greenberg) Oksana Stashenko (Natasha) Jicky Schnee (Jill) Maria Andreyeva (Elena) and Ally Sheedy (Helen)." 
6488
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/17/movies/17gold.html
based on the novel “Cap’n Eri” by Joseph C. Lincoln; director of photography Philip D. Schwartz; edited by Stan Cole and Susan Graef; music by Jonathan Edwards; produced by Michael Mailer; released by Roadside Attractions. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." Rip Torn (Capt. Jeremiah Burgess) Bruce Dern (Capt. Perez Ryder) Mariel Hemingway (Martha Snow) Charles Durning (John Bartlett) John Savage (Web Saunders) Angelica Torn (Melissa Busteed) Christy Scott Cashman (Elisabeth Preston) Jason Alan Smith (Ralph Hazeltine) and Julie Harris (Melodeon Player)." ” whines Zeb (David Carradine) ruefully observing the eddies of clutter. Rather than pick up a broom Zeb and his roomies (lustily played by Rip Torn and Bruce Dern) flip a coin. The loser must find a wife." the writer and director Daniel Adams (working from a novel by Joseph C. Lincoln) loses concentration. Rather than build every scene around this salty ménage-à-codger he shuttles Martha off to the margins while he fusses with a tedious arson plot and a ludicrous sea rescue." shiver-me-timbers dialogue." a charming premise and a breathtaking location. Set in 1905 on Cape Cod the movie observes the domestic chaos of three retired septuagenarian sea captains." Ms. Hemingway remains miraculously committed to her brisk appealing character. After a life spent caring for sick relatives Martha is ready for some fun; like the audience she’ll be disappointed." Massachusetts and  North Carolina." 
6489
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/15/movies/15dese.html
Kim Sungtae; edited by Kim Hyungjoo; art director Kim Sungkyu; produced by Park Jin-weon and Guillaume de Seille. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art. In Mongolian and Korean with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 3 minutes. This film is not rated." Choi Soonhee (Suh Jung) and a boy of around 11 Changho (Shin Dongho) abruptly materialize in front of the yurt as if blown like tumbleweeds. Having escaped across the North Korean border the two appear in dire need of shelter. (Given that Mongolia officially  borders Russia and China that was one long trek.) Hungai opens his home to the wanderers who soon settle into the familial roles vacated by the farmer’s wife and daughter. Soonhee milks the cow and gathers the dried dung used for fuel while Changho plays the part of the lovingly indulged child. Life goes on for the most part uneventfully though Soonhee’s sorrow and eventually her sex weigh on Hungai and others." as with other movies set in this part of the world accounts for many of the pleasures of “Desert Dream.” Except for scenes inside the yurt where the constricted space creates a more forced sense of intimacy Mr. Zhang tends to favor long shots that at times look as if they go on forever. Although he might be trying to say something about the relative isolation of the region’s inhabitants it’s easy to believe that Mr. Zhang is also very understandably transfixed by this unearthly yet earthbound place with its sprinkling of trees and endlessly curvilinear dunes. In its austerity and beauty the landscape seems to speak of desires that leave the people themselves almost speechless." a farmer who by planting saplings in the inhospitably sandy soil is waging a Sisyphean battle against his natural surroundings. The thin story opens shortly before Hungai’s wife leaves with their only child who needs an operation for her failing hearing. You don’t understand me the farmer all but grunts to his wife though it remains unclear why his mission to save the steppes through arborization  would be impeded by his daughter’s medical needs. Whatever the case the wife departs with the daughter leaving the husband alone in the yurt to tend to the saplings and livestock even as he fights the spookily yowling punishing wind." as if from a dream. Later it emerges that the world they left a place of hunger madness and misfired missiles called North Korea was probably closer to a nightmare. Like so much in “Desert Dream” — which is set on the Mongolian steppes and was written by its Chinese director Zhang Lu and partly produced by the (South) Korean Film Council  — the contours of that nightmare remain unvoiced and implicit. Silence interrupted only by the periodic violent howls of the wind and animal mewls and bleats pervades the otherworldly landscape of “Desert Dream.” It settles into the people too." Osor Bat-Ulzii (Hungai) Shin Dongho (Changho) Munkhjiin (Jorick) Enkhtuul (Oyona) and Bayasgalan (Sarnai)." 
6490
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/11/movies/11drag.html
the grandson of a wizened martial arts guru (Randall Duk Kim) who bequeaths him one of seven glittery orbs necessary to fend off the diabolical schemes of Lord Piccolo (James Marsters) an ancient supervillain with a supercheap makeup job." but aficionados of apocalyptic teenybopper kung fu extravaganzas are in for a real treat." based on the graphic-novel series “Dragonball” by Akira Toriyama published by Shonen Jump; director of photography Robert McLachlan; edited by Matthew Friedman and Chris Willingham; music by Brian Tyler; production designer Bruton Jones; produced by Stephen Chow; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." the movie takes great pleasure in completely reinventing itself every five minutes or so. There’s the bit at the kung fu tournament the challenge at the volcano the doppelgänger catfight the visit to the crypto-Tibetan monastery the struggle with the intergalactic werewolf." Chow Yun-Fat (Roshi) Emmy Rossum (Bulma) Jamie Chung (Chi Chi) James Marsters (Lord Piccolo) Joon Park (Yamcha) Eriko (Mai) Randall Duk Kim (Gohan) and Ernie Hudson (Sifu Norris) ." not at all — “Dragonball” has been perfectly designed to blow the mind of a 10-year-old boy." which show the touch of the producer Stephen Chow master of the happy action flick (“Kung Fu Hustle”). Here’s hoping he guides the sequel shamelessly promised at the climax of this unabashed lark." 
6491
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/10/movies/10drea.html
what a home!" Erik Messerschmidt; edited by Keiko Deguchi and Mr. Zagar; music by Kelli Scarr and the Books; design and animation Cassidy Gearhart and Yussef Cole; produced by Jeremy Yaches; released by IndiePix Films and International Film Circuit. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." many of which now beautify his Philadelphia neighborhood — “In a Dream” abounds in visual pleasure." Isaiah an artist and hardcore hippie gripped by manias of creativity and more destructive compulsions. Briefly institutionalized after a spell of unhinged ranting and several attempts to rip off his own genitals Isaiah returned to (relative) normalcy after the birth of his first son Ezekiel." deeply patient wife Julia. Ezekiel’s struggle with addiction and Isaiah’s lack of fidelity shatter the family’s bohemian bonhomie." 
6492
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/10/movies/10anvi.html
even if the musicians’ tongues are everywhere except in their cheeks. It’s also true that Spinal Tap has long since transcended satire and been welcomed into the metal god pantheon." as complicated and in its way as beautiful as a long rough marriage emerges as the film’s dramatic heart even as its narrative is focused on their attempt to make one last lunge for glory and recognition. They undertake a tour of Europe under the wing of an ardently well-intentioned spectacularly incompetent manager and then try to drum up record-industry interest in their 13th album. It’s painful to watch them work so hard for so little though it’s also frequently funny. And their resilience quixotic though it may be is also inspiring. How can you not root for them? They’re such nice guys and so devoted to their art." by the way) may not change your opinion of heavy metal. I confess it did not inspire me to seek out CDs like “Hard ’N’ Heavy ” “Metal on Metal” and “Worth the Weight.” But it might make you think in new ways about a cruel cultural logic that increasingly obliterates the middle ground between success and failure. Mr. Reiner and Mr. Kudlow may not quite merit full-metal glory but they don’t deserve oblivion either and “Anvil: The Story of Anvil” makes both a case and a place for their band." two of my colleagues and I spent about 20 minutes on the sidewalk arguing about whether the film was a documentary at all. Evidence that it might have been a clever hoax was suggested by the goofiness of some of the group’s lyrics and album covers (all of which feature what else? a giant anvil) and by what seemed to be sly references to “This Is Spinal Tap ” the definitive rock-mockumentary. One of the members of Anvil is named Robb Reiner which is the “Spinal Tap” director’s name with an extra “b.” On a trip to England Anvil works with a producer whose equipment has knobs that go to 11 and the members of the band make a pilgrimage to Stonehenge. The phrase “who were the Druids?” popped into my head followed by the question Who is Anvil?" who plays drums and Steve Kudlow the lead singer and guitarist who goes by the stage name Lips turn out to be two nice Jewish boys from Toronto. Now middle-class family men they seem a bit tired and defeated at times but they are also open and passionate as well as reasonably talented. They met as teenagers and the enthusiasm for music that they shared then has hardly waned even as their partnership has clearly endured some ups and downs." directed by Sacha Gervasi (whose screenwriting credits include “The Big Tease” and “The Terminal”) begins with an old clip from a rock festival in Japan perhaps the high point of Anvil’s early career. After tributes from rockers like Slash of Guns N’ Roses Lars Ulrich of Metallica and Lemmy Kilmister of Motörhead we catch up with Anvil at home in Toronto where after 30 years the band is still thrashing." which is either an affectionate chronicle of a Canadian heavy metal band that never quite made it or else a deadpan mockery of the same band." and the earnest heartfelt striving of the two men at the center of Anvil makes the band’s story more touching than comical. Mockery would be too easy and too mean and the success of “Anvil! The Story of Anvil” lies in its ability to make you care about an enterprise you might initially have been inclined to laugh at." 
6493
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/10/movies/10weap.html
it was a photo that changed Mr. Adams’s life and possibly the course of the Vietnam War. The strongest material in “An Unlikely Weapon” contemplates the import of that shot and of photojournalism itself on the events of its time. The rest charts Mr. Adams’s subsequent career from duck hunting with Fidel Castro to oceanfront sessions with Penthouse centerfolds with perfunctory admiration." “An Unlikely Weapon: The Eddie Adams Story” tends to fall into repetitive fawning. That its subject a Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist was himself an expert portrait maker — of celebrities politicians working-class heroes and most notably the victims of war — gives the film a lot more to look at however than just talking-head testimony by Mr. Adams’s colleagues (Kim Phuc Gordon Parks) and admirers (Tom Brokaw Peter Jennings)." Isaac Hagy; edited by Mr. Hagy; music by Kyle Eastwood and Michael Stevens; released by Morgan Cooper Productions. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie abounds with striking pictures from Mr. Adams’s long career (he died in 2004) but it keeps coming back to the one he snapped on Feb. 1 1968 in Saigon: a photograph of a Vietcong prisoner being executed on the street immortalized during the split second before the bullet exited his skull." 
6494
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/10/movies/10obse.html
Mr. Hill is too professionally shrewd to barrel down that particular road and more important there are too many studio dollars at stake here to risk outraging ethnic and racial groups that could be buying movie tickets. Instead Mr. Hill thumbs his nose at politically correct sensibilities notably through Ronnie’s mutually hostile encounters with a mall worker he calls Saddamn (Aziz Ansari) who has taken a restraining order out against him. Mr. Hill defuses this potentially explosive relationship by making sure that Saddamn is as verbally hostile as his foe which I guess is supposed to make it O.K. to laugh when Ronnie punches him in the face." rising above the muck) a cosmetics clerk who’s impervious to his attentions until the flasher brings them together. During an ensuing date Brandi gobbles pills guzzles tequila and even sputters puke prompting Ronnie to kiss her square on the messy mouth. What follows next should have been the shock of the movie: a cut to Ronnie having vigorous sex with Brandi who from her closed eyes slack body and the vomit trailing from her mouth to her pillow appears to have passed out. But before the words “date rape” can form in your head she rouses herself long enough to command Ronnie to keep going." of course but before 1968 the year the movie rating system was instituted directors couldn’t squeeze laughs from the suggestion of date rape as Mr. Hill tries to do here. Like action and horror filmmakers comedy directors now push hard against social norms with characters who deploy expletives bodily fluids and increasing brutality. Mr. Hill has upped the ante in this extreme comedy scene not only by creating a working-class bipolar bully who lives with his alcoholic mother but also by asking us to laugh at this pathetic soul — and his miserably constrained life — as well as at the violence he wreaks. The dolts in “Dumb and Dumber” had hearts of gold. Ronnie has a gun." ” a potentially brilliant conceptual comedy that fizzles because its writer and director Jody Hill doesn’t have the guts to go with his spleen. The story in short turns on a psycho shopping mall security chief Ronnie (Seth Rogen putting the lump into lumpen proletariat) who rules his retail roost with a Taser a trigger-hair temper and some smiley-faced sycophants. Like the pettiest of dictators Ronnie preys on the weak in the service of power (in this case the mall itself). He’s the Lynndie England of this dumber-and-dumbest yukfest." but sadism is this movie’s currency. The standard line about Mr. Hill whose other credits include the movie “The Foot Fist Way” and the new HBO series “East Bound and Down ” is that he has carved out a place in the pop-cultural firmament by exploiting his characters’ perceived awkwardness. But while Ronnie is socially clumsy his ineptitude is a contrivance a mask that initially entertains (we laugh at him) only to be more or less discarded when he turns hero — at which point we’re meant to laugh less at him and more at everyone else. The comedies of the Farrelly brothers and Judd Apatow hinge on a similar misfit-turned-hero dynamic but Mr. Hill adds a nasty twist to the formula." ” a self-flattering comparison. Like those of Travis Bickle Ronnie’s delusions of grandeur do end in a paroxysm of blood. Yet while Martin Scorsese might be overly fond of screen violence part of what makes that film profound and memorable is how the thrill of violence its seduction is always in play with a palpable moral revulsion. No such dialectic informs “Observe and Report ” which exploits Ronnie and his brutality for laughs. This lack of critique might make the movie seem daring. But it’s hard to see what is so bold about a film that much like the world outside the theater turns the pain and humiliation of other people into a consumable spectacle." vomit-adorned sexual congress and full-frontal male nudity." I suppose that there is no real difference between Ronnie shooting an unarmed man and a comic who throws a custard pie in another person’s kisser: they both make (some) audiences laugh. To insist on that difference is among other things to introduce politics and morality into the conversation and really who wants that when you’re watching a Seth Rogen flick? It’s far better and certainly easier as the old movie theater slogan put it to sit back and relax and enjoy the show. That after all is precisely what Hollywood banks on each time it manufactures a new entertainment for a public that — as the stupid violent characters who hold up a mirror to that public indicate — it views with contempt." a veritable catalog of dysfunction whose drop-dead drunk of a mother (Celia Weston) describes him as having been a special-needs child. Ronnie pops prescription pills day and night presumably for his self-confessed bipolar disorder. At work where he is soon preoccupied with capturing a serial flasher (Randy Gambill) he swaggers around the mall like a Wild West sheriff — though because he’s more Deputy Dawg than Dirty Harry the joke is definitely on him. He bosses around his rent-a-cop underlings including his deputy Dennis (a heavily lisping Michael Peña) and John and Matt (John and Matt Yuan) a support team that seems to have been assembled specifically to neutralize any complaints about how Ronnie treats nonwhites." 
6495
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/10/movies/10hann.html
you know?" and her dad finds a girlfriend (i know super gross)." based on characters created by Michael Poryes Rich Correll and Barry O’Brien; director of photography David Hennings; edited by David Moritz; music by John Debney; production designer Caroline Hanania; produced by Alfred Gough and Miles Millar; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is rated G." i’ve just seen “hannah montana the movie”!! and it’s just as awesome as the tv show only bigger and prettier and she doesn’t fall down so much." Billy Ray Cyrus (Robby Ray) Emily Osment (Lilly) Jason Earles (Jackson) Mitchel Musso (Oliver) and Moises Arias (Rico)." 
6496
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/08/movies/08pope.html
Virginia Méndez (Carmen) Virginia Ruiz (Silvia) Mario Silva (Valvulina) Henry De Leon (Nacente) and José Arce (Tica)." “The Pope’s Toilet” uses a seamless blend of professional and nonprofessional actors to take an oblique dig at a church that the movie suggests may have failed its most disadvantaged followers. Both filmmakers are Uruguayan (Mr. Fernández was born in Melo) so the hardscrabble details are touchingly credible generating a tone of profound sadness — located most affectingly in the journalism-career dreams of Beto’s teenage daughter — that Mr. Charlone’s upbeat cinematography works hard to dispel. Despite the whimsical title this is a movie that offers little in the way of relief for villagers and audiences alike." based on an original script by Mr. Fernández; director of photography Mr. Charlone; produced by Elena Roux; released by Film Movement. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art 11 West 53rd Street. In Spanish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." “The Pope’s Toilet” cloaks religious critique in the scrappy tempo of irremediable poverty and irrepressible enterprise." a godforsaken village near the Uruguay-Brazil border the movie tracks the misfortunes of a dirt-poor petty smuggler named Beto (César Troncoso resembling a less-exfoliated Omar Sharif). While his neighbors ecstatically prepare for a windfall from feeding the thousands of Brazilian faithful expected to attend the papal visit — one fearless entrepreneur even takes out a bank loan to buy sausage meat — Beto’s hopes rest on the opposite end of the digestive tract. If he builds a public convenience who wouldn’t want to spend a peso?" 
6497
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03lies.html
Anna Broinowski’s distinctively styled movie blends candid interviews and tongue-in-cheek re-enactments into what can only be described as a literary whydunit. Brilliantly edited (by Alison Croft and Vanessa Milton) for suspense rather than chronology the movie is a she-said-they-said puzzle whose particulars pale beside Ms. Khouri’s devastating charisma and resilient intellect. Cooperating fully and flirtatiously bobbing and weaving her way around every factual trap laid for her the writer refuses to cave. Were her lies pathological or as she claims necessary for her family’s safety? At times even her filmmaker seems unsure." Kathryn Milliss and Toby Oliver; edited by Alison Croft and Vanessa Milton; music by Max Sharam; produced by Sally Regan and Ms. Broinowski; released by Roxie Releasing. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes. This film is not rated." the Jordanian-born writer whose popular 2003 memoir “Forbidden Love” (known in the United States as “Honor Lost”) purported to recount the honor killing of her best friend Dalia. But when the Australian journalist Malcolm Knox publicly accused Ms. Khouri of fabricating her inflammatory story — and concealing her identity as a Chicago real estate agent under investigation by the F.B.I. — she abandoned her children to a neighbor and went into hiding." lighthearted and outrageously entertaining “Forbidden Lie$” is documentary-as-striptease a careful peeling of claim and counterclaim to reveal one of the most complex literary scandals of our time." 
6498
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03suga.html
Miguel goes home to his village to visit with his family and his girlfriend and to hang out with slightly older men whose own dreams of major-league glory have evaporated or expired." Andrij Parekh; edited by Ms. Boden; music by Michael Brook; production designer Elizabeth Mickle; produced by Paul Mezey Jamie Patricof and Jeremy Kipp Walker; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." befriends a former college star and conducts a tentative flirtation with the strawberry-blond churchgoing granddaughter of his hosts who wants him for spiritual or carnal purposes or both. (Here in America we may accept the constitutional separation of church and state but church and sex are much harder to keep apart.) On the field Miguel hits his stride early is slowed down by an injury faces various temptations and then ..." he was signed by an American professional team (the fictitious Kansas City Knights) as a teenager. Sugar and his fellow recruits live in a training center that in some ways resembles a prep school in others a prison. An armed guard stands at the gate and practices are observed from what looks like a guard tower." “Half Nelson ” Ms. Boden and Mr. Fleck a married couple who live in Brooklyn seemed at first to be working within a familiar somewhat dubious genre the heroic urban  teacher melodrama. But by making the teacher in question (played by Ryan Gosling) not only a drug addict but also more important a complicated individual whose moral confusion was hard to separate from his political idealism they upended easy sentimental assumptions about race class and urban life." preferring to contemplate the satisfactions and frustrations that lie in between.  It is both sad and hopeful but the film’s sorrow and its optimism  arise from its rarest and most thrilling quality which is its deep and humane honesty." also known as Azúcar) Rayniel Rufino (Jorge Ramírez) Andre Holland (Brad Johnson) Michael Gaston (Stu Sutton) Jaime Tirelli (Osvaldo) José Rijo (Alvarez) Ellary Porterfield (Anne Higgins)  and Ann Whitney (Helen Higgins)." the pleasure of competition the discipline of training. But the practice of big-time sports is often cruel and corrupt a business built on the exploitation of young people and the peddling of impossible dreams. This basic contradiction will be in vivid evidence this weekend during the national college basketball championships. It is also at least implicitly a central concern in “Sugar ” a wise and lovely new film by Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck." “Sugar” belongs on a shelf with “Hoop Dreams ” another great film that challenges us to shed our illusions about sports even as we retain our capacity to delight in the games themselves." ungoverned by the clock is notoriously full of surprises and the surprise of “Sugar” — I don’t mean the major third-act plot twist which is astonishing when it happens and utterly logical in retrospect — is that it’s not really about baseball at all. It’s about among other things the way America looks through the eyes of a stranger about the beauty of the Caribbean the Midwest and the South Bronx (skillfully evoked by the cinematographer Andrij Parekh) and about what it is to be a young man full of desire and potential in a world that seems starkly divided between haves and have-nots success and failure." unfolding through the triumphs and reversals of a single fateful season. After a stint in spring training in Arizona Miguel finds himself in  Iowa boarding with an elderly local couple and trying out his stuff in front of some pretty demanding hometown crowds as a starting pitcher for the Bridgetown Swing." ” which follows a young pitcher from a training camp in the Dominican Republic to a minor-league club in Iowa (and beyond) is infused with a deep affection for baseball the rhythms of which are nimbly captured by a narrative pace and editing style that quicken and relax as necessary. The small details and rituals of the game — the locker room banter the on-field surges of intensity and the tedium of the dugout — are captured with subtlety and without egg-headed glorious-pastime sententiousness." and played by a marvelously expressive and likable young nonprofessional actor named Algenis Pérez Soto he is sweet and easygoing but also fiercely competitive and a bit cocky." which beguiles some of the poorest people in the hemisphere with specters of fabulous wealth. But even in that world a lot of space is taken up by the middle ground: the modest paychecks sent to the family back home; the careers that culminate neither in glory  nor in disgrace but that flare up and peter out; the tiny increment of luck or timing that separates strike three from ball four." 
6499
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03spar.html
Karim is beset by misfortune. He loses his job on an ostrich farm when one of the birds in his care escapes into the countryside. He chases it and in a sweetly comic set piece puts on an ostrich costume in a vain attempt to lure the bird back into his clutches through a kind of mating dance." ” the Iranian filmmaker Majid Majidi’s dogmatic spiritual fable show a single ostrich which as the tale unfolds becomes a symbol of the majesty and mystery of the natural world." his teenage daughter Haniyeh (Shabnam Akhlaghi) accidentally drops her hearing aid in the village’s sludge-filled water storage tank. Lowering himself into the well Karim finds it in the muck but it is broken." he discovers a lucrative new occupation ferrying passengers around the city on the back of his bike." Tooraj Mansoouri; edited by Hassan Hassandoost; music by Hossein Alizadeh; production designer Asghar Nezhad-Imani; released by Regent Releasing. In Persian with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." it is really a series of strict moral lessons pieced together into an austere Islamic sermon. Iran’s submission for the foreign-language Oscar in 2008 it may be the most religious movie released in the United States by Mr. Majidi whose best-known films “Children of Heaven ” “The Color of Paradise” and “Baran ” helped put Iranian cinema on the world map. In “The Willow Tree” (2005) his most recent film to be seen here a blind professor of literature miraculously regains his sight but quickly sinks into despair disgusted by the world he discovers outside his imagination and by his own image in the mirror." Karim surrounded by children on the back of a truck sings his eyes half closed a smile on his face. “The world is a lie; the world is a dream ” he chants. His ecstatic fervor reaches into your heart." an impoverished farmer who lives in a rural village with his wife Narges (Maryam Akbari) and three children loses his soul only to regain it after a season in hell during which he succumbs to the temptations of the material world." Maryam Akbari (Narges) Kamran Dehgan (Abbas) Hamed Aghazi (Hussein) Shabnam Akhlaghi (Haniyeh) and Neshat Nazari (Zahra)." the 66-year-old actor who portrayed the blind boy’s father in “The Color of Heaven ” is here playing a 40-year-old man." Karim begins methodically carting it home until the stack of detritus in his yard is as large as any of the piles of junk from which he gleans these new possessions. Meanwhile his young son Hussein (Hamed Aghazi) and his friends fantasize about becoming millionaires by breeding goldfish in the well." including a refrigerator that he brings home to his wife (who doesn’t want it) after his bike stalls and he loses track of the fleet delivering the goods." this simple fable of a righteous man’s relationship to his family his community and most of all his faith has the force of conviction. And the scenes of rural life — especially an overhead shot of Karim carrying a blue door through a field — are quite beautiful." 
6500
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03esca.html
Joseph Fiennes (Lenny Drake) Dominic Cooper (Lacey) Liam Cunningham (Brodie) Seu Jorge (Viv Batista) Damian Lewis (Rizza) and Steven Mackintosh (Tony)." the cinematographer Philipp Blaubach conjures mystery from soaring iron stairways and a vaulted light-spilling ceiling. Not until the film’s final moments does the need for that mystery become clear." the director Rupert Wyatt (who also wrote the script with Daniel Hardy) keeps faces close and words to a minimum. Drama and the cadences of prison life are asserted by an urgent discordant score (by Benjamin Wallfisch) whose naturalistic taps and groans reduce the need for visible brutality. The hissing of water during a shower rape is as agitating as any choreographed image of sexual assault." Philipp Blaubach; edited by Joe Walker; music by Benjamin Wallfisch; production designer Jim Furlong; produced by Adrian Sturges and Alan Moloney; released by IFC Films. At the  Village East 181-189 2nd Avenue East Village. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." “The Escapist” shapes a standard prison-break drama into a metaphysical study of freedom and reparation." the movie centers on Frank (Brian Cox) an aging lifer with a perilously drug-addicted daughter. Circling Frank are the usual suspects — the vulnerable new cellmate (Dominic Cooper) the resident psychopath (Steven Mackintosh) the ruthless king con (Damian Lewis) — but the stereotypes are beside the point: “The Escapist” has loftier goals than simply getting its characters from pokey to pavement." 
6501
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03adve.html
written and directed by Greg Mottola (“The Daytrippers ” “Superbad”) plants its flag in thoroughly explored territory but that familiarity turns out to be integral to its loose and scruffy appeal. Somehow the story of a young man’s coming of age never gets old at least when it is told with the kind of sweetness and intelligence “Adventureland” displays." Kristen Stewart (Em Lewin) Martin Starr (Joel Schiffman) Bill Hader (Bobby) Kristen Wiig (Paulette) Margarita Levieva (Lisa P.) Jack Gilpin (Mr. Brennan) Wendie Malick (Mrs. Brennan) and Ryan Reynolds (Mike Connell)." who gets to keep his toys and his pals even as he acquires the benefits and obligations of heterosexual monogamy. The humor in these comedies is based on various forms of sexual unease in particular a jokey half-panicky homoeroticism complemented by a semiterrified  fascination with those oddly shaped emotionally inscrutable creatures known as women." like so many other members of a generation unfairly stigmatized at the time as slackers James moves back in with Dad and Mom (Wendie Malick) who live in standard suburban discomfort in western Pennsylvania. Finding that a B.A. in comparative literature qualifies him for fairly little in the way of paid work James takes a position manning the midway games at Adventureland a sad little amusement park that serves as the employer of last resort for the area’s misfit young." Mr. Mottola’s film is a relatively sober and cerebral affair more akin to Richard Linklater’s “Dazed and Confused” than to “Knocked Up” or “Forgetting Sarah Marshall.”" but for James Brennan (Jesse Eisenberg) things have already taken a recessionary turn. His father (Jack Gilpin) a wilted weak-chinned alcoholic has been demoted and the resulting financial pinch puts the kibosh on James’s rather modest postcollegiate dream of a summer in Europe followed by graduate school at Columbia. (His sights were set on journalism school and given what his midcareer 40-something self would be facing two decades later it’s probably just as well he didn’t go.)" allowing the film true to its season of idleness and drift to meander from one thing to another. There is some exemplary silliness from Mr. Hader and the peerless Kristen Wiig who plays his character’s wife and business partner but the jokes tend to be sly rather than broad and Mr. Mottola never sacrifices tenderness of feeling for a cheap laugh. Minor characters who might have been mean tossed-off caricatures — like the theme-park bombshell known as Lisa P. (Margarita Levieva) — are endowed with the capacity to change and surprise almost as if they were the protagonists of their own movies." though the smart slightly depressive vibe feels just right — for James’s era and for our own as well. The path to adulthood is lined with disappointment but for a young man with an open heart and a measure of self-confidence to say nothing of a degree in comp lit things will most likely be O.K." ” one of his loveliest songs and part of a soundtrack that runs the gamut of more or less period-appropriate sounds from the sublimity of Hüsker Dü to the ridiculousness of a bar band covering Foreigner. Otherwise Mr. Mottola is careful not to fetishize or lampoon the 1980s with silly hairdos or too-obvious topical references." and its sprawling narrative encompasses some soft spots and patches of inconsistency. The worst of these comes near the end with a failure of compassion on James’s part that seems to owe more to the demands of the plot than the logic of the character. And at times Mr. Mottola lays on the suburban adolescent malaise with too heavy a hand." Terry Stacey; edited by Anne McCabe; music by Yo La Tengo; production designer Stephen Beatrice; produced by Ted Hope Anne Carey and Sidney Kimmel; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." the ’80s." a moody leggy N.Y.U. student played by Kristen Stewart. Em is secretly involved with Connell (Ryan Reynolds) an older married maintenance man who impresses his younger co-workers male and female alike with transparently bogus tales of hobnobbing with famous musicians. “Did you know he jammed with Lou Reed?” Back in the ’80s wherever you went there was always some guy hanging around who had jammed with Lou Reed even if Lou Reed never was much for jamming." nerdy charm — Mr. Eisenberg’s stock in trade already evident in “Roger Dodger” and “The Squid and the Whale”  — James doesn’t have much in the way of assets: his virginity a bag of joints (courtesy of a preppy college pal) and a bookish naïveté all of which you can be sure he will be rid of by the time “Adventureland” is over." 
6502
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03tres.html
demonstrating the script’s notion of humor and her own deadpan skills. But as Urp tracks a tentacled beastie by means of the sticky remains of its human dinners we wait in vain for the director R. W. Goodwin to display more than just fan-boy obsession. Substituting period accuracy — a keening theremin a rubbery monster and a cast of 10s — for ideas he and his writers (James Swift and Steven Fisher) stay well clear of the mushroom-clouded corners of the American psyche." Jenni Baird (Tammy) Dan Lauria (Chief Dawson) Robert Patrick (Vern) and Jody Thompson (Lana Lewis)." based on a story by Mr. Fisher and James Swift; director of photography David Moxness; edited by Michael Jablow and Vaune Kirby; music by Louis Febre; production designer Ian Thomas; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes." a skill at which the women excel. Fortified with Cross-Your-Heart technology and gorgeous makeup Ms. Baird and Jody Thompson (as  the scientist’s silky hot-to-trot wife) act their male colleagues into the margins. Compared with wrangling foundation garments and seamed stockings besting monsters is a breeze." “Alien Trespass” proves only that while styles and technology have moved on the affection for corn is everlasting." ” he announces to a perky diner waitress (a scene-stealing Jenni Baird)." 
6503
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03pari.html
Clovis Cornillac (Milou) Kad Merad (Jacky) Nora Arnezeder (Douce) Pierre Richard (Monsieur TSF) Maxence Perrin (Jojo) and Bernard-Pierre Donnadieu (Galapiat)." based on an original idea by Frank Thomas Jean-Michel Derenne and Reinhardt Wagner; director of photography Tom Stern; edited by Yves Deschamps; music by Mr. Wagner; choreography by Corinne Devaux; produced by Jacques Perrin and Nicolas Mauvernay; released by Sony Pictures Classics. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours." in trying to evoke the great French films of the 1930s and ’40s mistakes their elegant clarity for simple-mindedness and treats his material and his audience with condescension. He wants us to think about the bad old times and the good old movies but he’s hopelessly mixed up. The times were in many ways much worse than “Paris 36” lets on. But the movies were rarely this bad." directed by Christophe Barratier (“Les Choristes”) is perhaps not horrendous enough to bring down a proud national cinema all by itself but it is so shameless in its pandering sentimental vision of Frenchness as to constitute something of a national embarrassment. Filmed on a set whose fanciful evocation of a Parisian faubourg makes “Moulin Rouge!” look naturalistic (and “Amélie” look like a documentary) “Paris 36” is unstinting in its deployment of Gallic clichés." preening tracking shots take in baguettes berets and tricolor bunting accompanied by the incessant squawking of accordions. Most of the men sport droopy mustaches atop even droopier lips and they smoke and sip vin rouge and speak sighingly of love and politics. Why look it’s the Eiffel Tower! And there it is again! Remarkably no one kisses his fingertips and exclaims “Sacre bleu!”  or “Magnifique! ” but I’d bet you euros to croissants that such a moment was left somewhere on the Pathé cutting-room floor." most of them surrounding the efforts of Pigoil and his buddies to revive the moribund Chansonia. Also to rescue it — and a comely chanteuse called Douce (Nora Arnezeder) — from the clutches of the neighborhood’s chief gangster (Bernard-Pierre Donnadieu). Threaded through it all are vintage-style French songs (by Reinhardt Wagner and Frank Thomas) to go with the vintage clothes the vintage cars and the vintage politics. (The muted vintage of the film comes courtesy of Tom Stern the cinematographer who has given most of Clint Eastwood’s recent films their burnished somber tones.)" which in the course of two long hours can start to feel like fondness. Its main characters after all are such sad lovable little Frenchmen." when the left-wing Popular Front government of Léon Blum came to power initiating a period of intensified class struggle and political antagonism. Mr. Barratier takes this fraught and interesting moment of strikes factory occupations rising fascism and mass unemployment and turns it into the vague and gauzy backdrop for a nostalgic and improbable tale of music-hall shenanigans. There is nothing wrong with taking a whimsical or melodramatic view of history but both the film’s humor and its pathos are glib and predictable making the experience grating rather than charming." also seen in “Les Choristes”) who in the opening scenes loses almost everything: his backstage job at the Chansonia music hall; his wife who runs off with a fellow performer; and then his beloved son an accordion prodigy named Jojo (Maxence Perrin) who is taken from Pigoil’s custody by heartless bureaucrats." who fancies himself “the prince of impressionists”? Or Milou (Clovis Cornillac) a stagehand labor agitator and smoldering ladies’ man?" ” “A Christmas Tale ” “The Secret of the Grain” and “La France” might even lead a Francophile cinephile to conclude that a new day of glory has arrived." 
6504
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03life.html
and as the Bernsteins retire back home to process their new paradigm issues are aired and fissures repaired." “Lifelines” starts promisingly with a sharp comedic bite and genuine compassion for this fraught family dynamic but soon gives way to the kind of compressed schematic psychodrama endemic to (if no more welcome on) the stage." produced and directed by Rob Margolies; director of photography David Sperling; edited by Jason Stewart; music by Robert Miller; released by Different Duck Films. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 31 minutes. This film is not rated." Josh Pais (Ira Bernstein) Robbie Sublett (Michael Bernstein) Dreama Walker (Meghan Bernstein) Jacob Kogan (Spencer Bernstein) and Joe Morton (Dr. Livingston)." the Bernstein clan arrives at the office of Dr. Livingston (Joe Morton) a therapist who urges Dad fidgety and dissembling to come out and say it whatever it is." messily for some kind of afternoon outing. Dad (Josh Pais) lingers in the bathroom staring at the wall. Mom (Jane Adams) is cracked out on coffee. Daughter Meghan (Dreama Walker) wakes up in a fit of cursing and petulance. Spencer (Jacob Kogan) the youngest son flees his morning dose of Ritalin then plots his escape from the morning’s agenda while Michael (Robbie Sublett) his elder brother stutters through his anxiety." 
6505
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03giga.html
since the mood of this cautiously surreal absurdist movie is predominantly glum. Much of the time its 28-year-old protagonist Brian Weathersby (Paul Dano) who works as a sales clerk for an upscale Manhattan mattress company wears a slightly stricken expression on his otherwise poker face. Mr. Dano’s low-key performance types Brian as a close spiritual relative of the polite young men who drift through mumblecore films." “Gigantic ” are more than metaphors for the timid flailing characters in this serious comedy about the children of privilege. Their presence also suggests Mr. Aselton’s approach to the world which he examines with the evenhanded curiosity of a scientist studying a species under stress." Zooey Deschanel (Harriet Lolly) Ed Asner (Mr. Weathersby) Jane Alexander (Mrs. Weathersby) John Goodman (Al Lolly) Sean Dugan (Gary Wynkoop) Robert Stanton (James Weathersby) and Ian Roberts (John Weathersby)." and he has applied to an agency to help him find one. Adoptive single parenthood seems to be his conscious attempt to give his directionless life a foundation. His two older brothers a surgeon (Robert Stanton) and an unscrupulous oilman (Ian Roberts) are old-school go-getters like his overbearing father (Ed Asner)." Al Lolly (John Goodman) who lives in a fancy loft is also a  bully. When Brian sells him a $14 000 Swedish mattress he refuses to the pay the usual delivery charges; without thinking twice he peppers his gay assistant with homophobic wisecracks. These two monarchs of their own private realms are too self-aggrandizing  to acknowledge any damage caused by their imperial ways." “Gigantic” strains to be original. But beneath its indie affectations it is really another contemplation of generational misunderstanding. Instead of the passionate ’60s and ’70s rebels pursuing authenticity in the material world or ’80s and ’90s nihilists flamboyantly self-destructing the movie’s meek lovebirds only want something worth their commitment." who lives upstate with his grand wife (Jane Alexander) gathers the clan for a foray into the woods in search of psychedelic mushrooms. Visiting the city later in the story this swaggering character whom everyone assumes to be Brian’s grandfather behaves like an entitled boor. He uses terms like “your girl” for an executive assistant wonders why there is no porter in Brian’s building and when offered something to drink during a daytime business meeting calls for bourbon." as always exudes an appealing freshness and unpredictability." who attacks him with a lead pipe in one scene and in another shoots him during a hunting expedition.  This angry would-be assassin is a figment of Brian’s imagination yet his assaults leave Brian visibly wounded which reflects Mr. Aselton’s assertion in his director’s statement that he is “interested in stories in which reality and absurdity cross.”" Peter Donahue; edited by Beatrice Sisul; music by Roddy Bottum; production designer Rick Butler; produced by Mindy Goldberg and Christine Vachon; released by First Independent Pictures. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." some sexual content and violence." 
6506
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03fast.html
based on characters created by Gary Scott Thompson; director of photography Amir Mokri; edited by Christian Wagner and Fred Raskin; music by Brian Tyler; production designer Ida Random; produced by Neal H. Moritz Michael Fottrell and Vin Diesel; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." yes and no. “Parts” is a remarkably apt way to describe the people of the movie a crew of affectless hard bodies reunited from the 2001  B-movie sensation “The Fast and the Furious.”" Paul Walker (Brian O’Conner) Michelle Rodriguez (Letty) Jordana Brewster (Mia Toretto) John Ortiz (Campos) and Laz Alonso (Fenix)." the script (by Chris Morgan) is primitive at best while the direction (by Justin Lin) is more or less functional. Less in fact would have been more: “Fast & Furious” could stand to lose 20 minutes to suit its truncated title." an inexpressive chunk of man whose actorly range is largely restricted to the occasional furrowing of a brow the cast is slotted into a narrative involving revenge against a Mexican drug cartel outlandish vehicular mayhem flaunting of custom bodywork (both automotive and anatomical) and settings that encourage people to wear tank tops." 
6507
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/03/movies/03bart.html
Los Angeles and Miami." Hallvard Braein; edited by Danny Rafic and Annette Davey; music by Jamie Lawrence; production designer Regina McLarney-Crowley; produced by Galt Niederhoffer Daniela Taplin Lundberg Celine Rattray Jai Stefan and Tony Shawkat; released by Anchor Bay Films. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes." and everyone else simulates comedy." Alia Shawkat (Camille) Brandon Hardesty (Craig) Jennifer Tilly (Melinda) Cheryl Hines (Beth) and William H. Macy (Ernie)." a trumpet-playing dweeb driven by postprom fondling fantasies and the embarrassingly frank advice of his divorced parents (Cheryl Hines and William H. Macy). But as Danny bungles his way through a stale sequence of potential-prom-partner encounters the movie imprisons its talented cast (including Alia Shawkat as Danny’s overlooked soul mate and Brandon Hardesty as his worldly best friend) in roles that leave little room for anything but caricature." “Bart Got a Room” moves to the rhythms of a big-band  soundtrack and a borscht-belt vibe. Aiming for John Hughes by way of Woody Allen the writer and director Brian Hecker sweats to wring freshness from his partly autobiographical tale of senior prom disaster; but not even the lovingly rendered Sunshine State setting can energize a screenplay more antiquated than the extras who pad its corners." Fla. where the director grew up surrounded by retirees “Bart Got a Room” almost redeems itself with knowing images of beachfront bandstands and pastel strip malls early-bird restaurants and plastic-coated sofas. In a movie in which  even the youngsters feel pants-at-the-armpits old five minutes with Jennifer Tilly arrive like a gift reminding us that comedy without risk is as barren as a prom without a theme." 
6508
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/01/movies/01tulp.html
or more crucially about the emotions of the people who dwell on it and the viewer quickly loses the sense of their foreignness which is replaced by a feeling of recognition." Jola Dylewska; edited by Isabel Meier and Petar Markovic; production designer Roger Martin; produced by Pandora Film (Germany) and Karl Baumgartner; released by Zeitgeist Films. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. In Kazakh and Russian with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." Ondas (Ondasyn Besikbasov) a gruff and patriarchal herdsman who serves as Asa’s role model and mentor but also as a wet blanket on some of the younger man’s dreams and ambitions." bringing gifts to her elderly parents and working hard to beguile them with octopus stories. Tulpan’s face is never glimpsed on screen and she rejects Asa out of hand because his ears are too big but he nonetheless decides that he is in love with her. His passion quixotic though it may be is also heartfelt and genuinely touching since it is a measure of his sincerity and his desire to infuse the hard austere life ahead of him with a touch of romance." a well-appointed yurt scores of sheep scattered across the steppe. Not that everything is rosy: his ewes keep giving birth to dead lambs and he is menaced by the specter of debt or dispossession. But his thorny temperament is profoundly at odds with Asa’s sensitive boyish eagerness. And Asa wants so badly to be a man that he keeps tripping himself up." and the nomads who tend their  sheep amid the ample dust and meager grass resemble residents of a half-forgotten outpost on a distant planet waiting for a spaceship to fall from the sky." or to make a film like this one which belongs to a tradition that stretches back to Robert Flaherty’s “Nanook of the North.” The risk is a kind of wide-eyed condescension a patronizing appreciation of simpler supposedly more authentic ways of life." a milestone in cinematic ovine obstetrics is both crucial to the story and a tour de force the kind of thing a director like David Cronenberg or Takashi Miike would attempt only with prosthetics or other special effects. In “Tulpan” you see it for real a perfectly ordinary event that is also something of a miracle." sentimental side to “Tulpan ” but Mr. Dvortsevoy applies his own romanticism sparingly allowing his slender poignant narrative to thread its way at times almost imperceptibly through the film’s rough and vivid documentary foreground. He is aware that for much of the audience in urban Kazakhstan as well as abroad (where “Tulpan” has won several festival awards including the Prix un Certain Regard at Cannes) the milieu and the characters will seem almost impossibly exotic." ” the first fictional feature by the Kazakh director Sergey Dvortsevoy might be described as an epic landscape film a sweetly comic coming-of-age story or a lyrical work of social realism. But the setting — a windswept sparely populated steppe in southern Kazakhstan — gives the movie a mood that sometimes feels closer to that of science fiction." Samal Yeslyamova (Samal) Ondasyn Besikbasov (Ondas) and Tulepbergen Baisakalov (Boni)." Asa (Askhat Kuchinchirekov) the young man whose struggles propel the film’s modest keenly observed narrative arrives in this place with a bit of the allure — and a lot of the alienation — of an intergalactic voyager who has crashed to Earth. Asa has just completed a stint in the navy and he looks especially odd so far from the water when he puts on his sailor’s uniform. His command of nautical lore — for example the predatory habits of the giant octopus — makes him all the more outlandish." Gennady Ostrovskiy and the cinematographer Jola Dylewska) have achieved. One measure of this is suggested by an interview distributed with the film’s press materials which includes the question “Please tell us about working with sheep and especially how you accomplished the lamb birth scene.”" 
6509
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/01/movies/01enli.html
based on a story by Ms. Churchill Mr. Hexner and Khari Streeter; director of photography Mr. Hexner; edited by Mr. Streeter and Jonathan Sahula; music by Krishna Venkatesh; animation by Mr. Hexner; released by Balcony Releasing. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes. This film is not rated." 29 a physically fit intellectually skeptical journalist from New York to plunge into the world of yoga in search of a style that suited him. Approaching the subject through Mr. Rosen is a doubly smart strategy: it allows the uninitiated viewer to explore yoga through a surrogate and it marginalizes Ms. Churchill’s blatant agenda and rather grating personality." and he tours the various studios and methods of the international yoga scene (from New York to Los Angeles and Hawaii before an extended and fascinating trip to India) with both an open mind and a dubious eye for its more metaphysical trappings. This clearly frustrates a filmmaker eager to acclaim the “transformative” aspects of the discipline." “Enlighten Up!” explores its subject with a light touch and welcome sense of humor. That it ends with a lack of resolution about yoga’s ultimate goal suggests that Mr. Rosen wasn’t the only one to gain some self-knowledge along the way." the filmmaker Kate Churchill came up with a shrewd idea. Rather than focus on her own experience with the discipline which she has practiced to great physical and spiritual benefit for many years she enlisted a yoga novice to devote himself to it and report on its effects." 
6510
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27kiss.html
Laurent Desmet; edited by Martial Salomon; art director David Faivre; produced by Frédéric Niedermayer; released by Music Box Films. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." they conclude would be for Caline and Claudio to fall in love. Claudio’s passion for the music of Schubert plays a major role in their meet-cute scheme which of course disastrously misfires." who is happily partnered  but tempted balks and begins to tell the cautionary tale of two acquaintances Judith (Virginie Ledoyen) and Nicolas (Mr. Mouret) that makes up the heart of this movie-within-a-movie. Best friends since high school who have always confided their deepest secrets Nicolas a math teacher and Judith a laboratory researcher act like grown-up children when they’re together." a flight attendant the affair continues. Once Judith and Nicolas agree that yes they are in love they decide that they must shed their partners in the most humane way possible." a local furniture restorer and Émilie (Julie Gayet) a fabric designer in town on a brief business trip from Paris. He offers her a ride to her destination which  leads to a romantic dinner at the end of which hovers a delicious question: whether to seal their enchanted evening with a farewell kiss or to leave each other wondering What if?" but nobody is seriously hurt. The players in this mouth-watering Gallic soufflé are so attractive well mannered and comfortably grounded in the bourgeois world that you needn’t fear for their well-being minor heartaches notwithstanding." without slammed doors or raised voices or people running frantically in and out of closets. Now and again the movie returns to Gabriel and Émilie who have come to her hotel room in the early hours of morning." who likes to appear in his own films (he suggests Woody Allen as a lost puppy) “Shall We Kiss?” could have come only from France a country whose movies would have you believe that most people over 16 are well dressed cultured and sophisticated without being jaded. These are the same young people who have flocked through Eric Rohmer’s movies since the 1970s. But “Shall We Kiss?” doesn’t have the underlying moral gravity of a Rohmer film." Nicolas’s rescue plan unfolds as a deadpan farce with each hesitant caress and careful removal of a garment preceded by a polite request as if the couple were following the rules in a college manual on politically correct dating behavior." Judith agrees — after he reports that even a visit to a prostitute didn’t help because the date fizzled when the woman refused to kiss. The friends’ first tentative touching of lips recalls the moment in a science fiction movie when a male earthling bestows a kiss on a beautiful mystified alien and awakens strange sensations." Emmanuel Mouret (Nicolas) Julie Gayet (Émilie) Michaël Cohen (Gabriel) Frédérique Bel (Caline) and Stefano Accorsi (Claudio)." in despair for lack of physical intimacy since a recent breakup entreats Judith who lives comfortably with Claudio (Stefano Accorsi) a pharmacist to bring him back to life by being his sexual surrogate." 
6511
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27teac.html
Petr retreats into classical music remaining aloof from the local farmers who have the rowdy solidarity of people who live close to the earth and depend on one another’s labor. The film’s most remarkable scene observes the birth of a calf which requires three people straining at the ropes attached to its feet to extract it from its mother." Divis Marek; edited by Jan Danhel; music by Vladimir Godar; production designers Vaclav Novak and Petr Pistik; produced by Pavel Strnad Petr Oukropec Karl Baumgartner and Thanassis Karathanos; released by Film Movement. In Czech with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes. This film is not rated." the title character of “The Country Teacher ” is a pensive bespectacled Czech in his 30s who impulsively leaves Prague to take a job teaching natural science in a rural village. Both his subject and the rustic environment play into the movie’s contemplation of biological diversity as it applies to human behavior especially sexuality." ” with the melodrama tempered the story given a soft landing." serious joke of “The Country Teacher” is that the tender love and care Petr lavishes can’t begin to kindle desire in a young straight teenager who is entirely unaware of Petr’s true feelings. Eventually against his better judgment Petr makes his move. His nature has its way. The flesh is weak and lust is lust no matter how many lofty well-meaning gestures are thrown in as camouflage." it is revealed that Petr is gay but out of fear of persecution in his new job innate reticence and shame he keeps this information to himself. Prague’s world of parties and casual hookups was not to his liking. When a former boyfriend (Marek Daniel) with whom he was never in love shows up and pesters him to have sex Petr demurs. It is easy to see why he lost interest in this loud hard-drinking party animal and mischief maker. At the same time it is equally clear why Petr might have initially been drawn to him:  opposites attract." Zuzana Bydzovska (Marie) Ladislav Sedivy (Boy) Marek Daniel (Boyfriend) Tereza Voriskova (Popsie) and Milos Cernousek (School Principal)." the film’s ideas about morality and desire might come across as a didactic lecture on tolerance and forgiveness. But Mr. Liska’s deep quiet performance in the movie which was written and directed by Bohdan Slama (“Something Like Happiness ” “Wild Bees”) and the film’s portrayal of farm life as a rugged pastorale lends “The Country Teacher” a foundation of visceral truth." he harbors a secret crush on Marie’s wiry 17-year-old son who lolls in the hay with his girlfriend in a state of perpetual heat. As Petr’s desire intensifies he expresses his adoration by tutoring the boy who responds to his attention and demonstrates a newfound interest in his studies." a lean weatherbeaten woman with a bitter marital history who is bringing up an unruly teenage son Lada (Ladislav Sedivy). When Marie casually signals her availability to Petr he gently fends off her advances. She assumes that it is because she is too old for him and he doesn’t correct her." 
6512
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27solo.html
“Man Push Cart” (2005) and “Chop Shop” (2008) both take place in New York and focus on the struggles of immigrants to get by and get ahead. But while that description is accurate enough it is also a little misleading. Mr. Bahrani is not interested in serving up warmed-over multicultural sentiment or in delivering lessons on social problems nor in staging encounters between uptight privileged white Americans and earthy sensitive Others." aware of the abyss that William appears to be seeking. Mr. West’s face pouched and weary makes a back story superfluous. And William’s reticence more than his occasional show of warmth or generosity provokes in Solo a defiant insistent compassion. For some reason — it’s not clear that he understands it himself — Solo is driven not only to try to save William but also to know him. And this in turn infuriates William who at one point punches his would-be savior in the face." and his method — placing nonprofessional actors (Mr. West with a long television and movie career behind him is an exception) in real-world settings and embedding them in small powerful stories — allows for both a richly detailed sense of life and an intimation of unspoken meaning." but in a more melancholy form. The two men though they seem to share a destination in fact cross paths going in opposite directions. Solo a fairly new arrival in a strange land is working his way up and in toward the bright promise not only of material comfort but also of belonging. William is in flight seeking the outer edge of experience and the oblivion that lies beyond it." Alex (Diana Franco Galindo) and his more contentious dealings with her mother Quiera (Carmen Leyva); his wary camaraderie with the drug dealers who use his services; his determination to become a flight attendant. But he is no more a case study than the grumpy taciturn William about whom we learn almost nothing. And while the temperamental differences between them could not be clearer the film is grounded in their adamant fine-grained individuality. It’s not interested in what they are like but rather in who they are." the driver is a Senegalese man living in Winston-Salem N.C. working and charming his way toward a share of the American dream. His demeanor is effortlessly warm and disarmingly friendly. He wears down resistance or suspicion with an incandescent smile and affectionate teasing: every male customer or colleague is “big dog”; the unseen and impatient female dispatcher is “pork chop.” Solo’s hardy at times almost inexplicable optimism makes him a kindred spirit to Poppy the London schoolteacher played by Sally Hawkins in Mike Leigh’s “Happy-Go-Lucky.”" ” Ramin Bahrani’s wonderful third feature is moving and mysterious and you may find yourself pondering its implications for a long time after the film’s simple and haunting final images have faded. But it all begins matter-of-factly enough with a conversation between a taxi driver and his passenger who proposes an unusual business arrangement." jump off?” Solo asks jokingly. William’s silent response unnerves him even as it inaugurates the movie’s subtle and lucid exploration of a human connection that seems at once startlingly new — at least as a subject for a movie — and bracingly real." wry humor and wide-awake intelligence that informs every frame of this almost perfect film." Red West (William) Diana Franco Galindo (Alex) Carmen Leyva (Quiera) Lane Williams (Roc) and Mamadou (Mamadou)." he too must face largely within the confines of a moving car a profound challenge to his sunny view of it. The man in the back seat in that first scene is William (Red West) a white Southerner at least 30 years older than Solo who wants to arrange a trip to a place called Blowing Rock. It’s a long drive into the mountains and William is offering a lot of money." bottomless question is more than enough to sustain a story that quietly and enthrallingly transcends its anecdotal beginnings. Mr. Bahrani (who wrote the script with Bahareh Azimi his collaborator on “Chop Shop”) and his director of photography Michael Simmonds (who also shot “Man Push Cart” and “Chop Shop”) coax a rough beauty out of Winston-Salem and its environs capturing the lonely slightly menacing feeling of a city at night. Solo’s good cheer is an antidote to this atmosphere a way of filling the void that exists between people and beyond their strivings." Michael Simmonds; production designer Chad Keith; produced by Jason Orans and Mr. Bahrani; released by Roadside Attractions.  Running time: 1 hour 31 minutes. This film is not rated." and it is not entirely unmerited. His decency can seem like a form of aggression and it can make him look foolish as well as saintly. Mr. Bahrani has cited Roberto Rossellini’s “Flowers of Saint Francis” as an influence on “Goodbye Solo ” and while Solo is hardly without sin he does seem at times to be in possession of a quality that can be described only as grace." 
6513
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27butt.html
” the screen adaptation of a play by Rebecca Gilman that was well received when it opened nine years ago in New York after originating at the Goodman Theater in Chicago.  The movie is a methodical not to say mechanical  and plodding exploration of identity politics and language as a treacherous  minefield of hostility and evasion. The further you tiptoe into this territory the more difficult it is to retreat." directed by Mark Brokaw from a script by Ms. Gilman and Doug Atchison is a smart squirm-inducing exploration of the hidden potentially explosive subtexts in dialogues about race and ethnicity. The story focuses on Simon Brick (Paul James) an African-American and model student who begins receiving racist threats including an anonymous note warning him to go back to Africa." Mykelti Williamson (Aaron Carmichael) Beau Bridges (Burton Strauss) Miranda Richardson (Catherine Kenney) James Rebhorn (Winston Garvey) Victor Rasuk (Patrick Chibas) and Richard Riehle (Paul Myers)." John Thomas; edited by Brian Anton and Suzy Elmiger; music by David Van Tieghem; production designer Michael Shaw; produced by Lou Pitt and Norman Twain;  released by Screen Media Films. In Manhattan at the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes." the dean of students at Belmont a small liberal arts college in Vermont calls in Patrick Chibas (Victor Rasuk) one of her brightest students to tell him the good news that he qualifies for a $12 000 scholarship she is unprepared for his response. Asked to fill out a form in which he designates his ethnicity he refuses to call himself Hispanic. He insists that he is Nuyorican someone born in New York of Puerto Rican descent. Sarah cajoles him into writing “Hispanic” for practical reasons but that’s not the end of it." ” Helen Bannerman’s 1899 children’s book about a boy  in India who to avoid being eaten by tigers gives them his flashy new clothes; the jealous tigers chase one another  around a tree until they are spun into melted butter. The book was popular until the word Sambo became identified as racially derogatory. Like those tigers the characters in the movie  run around  in circles until they become a rhetorical  blur." a rock is thrown through his window and the college turns itself inside out to  uncover the culprit. The local news  media led by an African-American anchor Aaron Carmichael (Mykelti Williamson) become involved. And a forum intended to air grievances and calm everyone down opens  a Pandora’s box of resentments." workmanlike performance typifies skillful acting that gives the characters as much dimension as the language allows. If that language generates plenty of heat the characters’ inner selves rarely peek out from under the heavy political baggage weighing them down." with a romantic undertow between  Sarah and Aaron two people who like and respect  each other  but are continually having to explain what they mean. Before moving to Vermont Sarah taught at a mostly black college in Chicago where her rowdier students forced her to confront her own racism." Los Angeles Washington and Boston." Margo Jefferson of  The New York Times  described “Spinning Into Butter” as a “post-comic post-tragic farce ” although it isn’t at all funny. It is farcical only in the sense that its characters especially the all-white faculty and the college president Winston Garvey (James Rebhorn) are mouthpieces of ludicrous boilerplate reeking of condescension and incomprehension. Even the term minority is scrutinized and found poisonous." 
6514
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27banks.html
Alex Nepomniaschy; edited by Eric L. Beason; released by Anchor Bay Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." you’ll see quite a different story: a prickly examination of the sturdiness of class boundaries and the illusion of inclusion." doping and head-stomping." “The Education of Charlie Banks” probes class consciousness with rather more sensitivity than originality. But thanks to sincere performances (most notably from Mr. Ritter and Eva Amurri as Charlie’s upper-crust crush) and clever writing (by Peter Elkoff) the movie never becomes maudlin. Drawing a firm line between blue blood and blue collar Mr. Durst  keeps his eyes on details — Charlie’s merit-scholar tweed jacket a rich girl’s fridge stocked with  brie and Champagne — as distinguishing as Mick’s flaring uncontrolled temper. Mick’s dreams of class mobility appear ridiculous only because they are." Jason Ritter (Mick) Christopher Marquette (Danny) Eva Amurri (Mary) Sebastian Stan (Leo) and Gloria Votsis (Nia)." an awkward middle-class teenager from Greenwich Village the Ivy League experience  in the early 1980s is greased by his acceptance into a hedonistic clique of trust-fund babies. But when Mick (Jason Ritter) an old acquaintance with a rap sheet and anger issues shows up at Charlie’s dorm his idyllic life is irrevocably ruptured." 
6515
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27swin.html
the notorious Manhattan swingers’ club that opened in January 1977 and closed on New Year’s Eve in 1985. A vintage clip in the documentary which is based on a 2002 article by  Mr. Hart in  The New York Times confirms that image. The sea of naked bodies observed from a middle distance resembles nothing so much as a heaving sea of termites." which flourished during the same era Mr. Levenson and two other owners were  convicted of  tax evasion in 1981. After serving three years in Allenwood Federal Prison he returned to Plato’s which in 1980 had relocated from the Ansonia  on the Upper West Side to a warehouse on West 34th Street. By this time its novelty had faded and it had become a hub of prostitution. The AIDS epidemic was the final nail in the coffin. Mr. Levenson fell on hard times and died in January 1999." it leaves you feeling queasy. Memories of hot times after all are just that: memories." ” which interweaves reminiscences of onetime patrons with grainy bleached-out scenes of party life inside the club at various points in its history along with the story of its founder Larry Levenson. At the peak of the club’s popularity Mr. Levenson who boasted of having sex with as many as 10 women a night was nicknamed the King of Swing.  In clips from television interviews with Phil Donahue and David Susskind Mr. Levenson comes across as a cheerfully messianic promoter of orgy-porgy freedom and enlightenment." Christian Hoagland; edited by Keith Reamer; music by Jim Coleman; produced by Mr. Kaufman Mr. Hart Gretchen McGowan and Mr. Hoagland; released by Magnolia Pictures. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6516
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27slee.html
“The Perfect Sleep” fuses Shakespearean tragedy and noir iconography into a strange lovely leaden ball of confusion. Attempting a mythic tale of warring dynasties and ancient grudges the director Jeremy Alter wavers between homage and parody. But you can’t look at something sideways while placing it on a pedestal: that’s how you break your neck." Oregon." Roselyn Sanchez (Porphyria) Patrick Bauchau (Nikolai) Peter J. Lucas (Ivan) Tony Amendola (Dr. Sebastian) and Sam Thakur (the Rajah)." the movie’s justifiably preening cinematography (by Charles Papert) is too often degraded by dialogue that  isn’t so much hard-boiled as it is soft-poached." lungs pierced and bosoms fleetingly flashed." Charles Papert; edited by Martin Hunter; music by David Vanian; production designer Clayton Hartley; produced by Mr. Alter Keith Kjarval and Mr. Pardoe; released by Cinema Epoch. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." who also wrote the inflamed script) an unnamed assassin sucked back into his former life by a head-shaking plot and an imperiled honey (Roselyn Sanchez more forlorn than fatale). Propelled by multiple flashbacks his own lugubrious voice-over and an endless succession of pummelings our man traverses grandly echoing locations and confrontations so static they could be freeze-frames." 
6517
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27sher.html
and the mutually flirtatious heat that ensued. With touching intimacy and charm “Guest” chronicles the relationship that developed between them first as interlocutor and subject then as lovers and finally as a couple undone by the pressures and prejudices of superstardom." Dane Lawing; edited by Mr. Donahue; produced by Paul H-O Mr. Donahue and Anura Idupuganti; released by Trela Media. At  Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes. This film is not rated." it’s Cindy Sherman ex-lover month at the movies. “The Feature ” an experimental memoir by Ms. Sherman’s ex-husband Michel Auder recently played at Anthology Film Archives. And now “Guest of Cindy Sherman ” by Paul Hasegawa-Overacker (a k a Paul H-O) offers an even more intimate look at the personal life of Ms. Sherman the photographer." the documentary revisits the heyday of “Gallery Beat ” a breezy irreverent public-access cable show hosted by  Paul H-O. Begun in 1993 as the art world suffered a hangover after the 1980s “Gallery Beat” functioned as a scrappy social diary for the scene." bittersweet autobiography and witty trip down art-world memory lane “Guest of Cindy Sherman” isn’t out to settle scores or exploit access public or otherwise. The only  person who comes off looking bad is the eternally peevish Julian Schnabel one of dozens of luminaries  captured (or cornered) by  Paul H-O’s mirthful camera." 
6518
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27mons.html
overseen by a general with a buzz cut and a drill sergeant’s bark provided by Kiefer Sutherland. Everyone goes whirling through the air fires off some wisecracks and generally has a good time. You probably will too even if you feel a little cheated in the end." so does “Monsters vs. Aliens” turn fright and apocalypse into strenuous noisy 3-D fun." Seth Rogen (B.O.B.) Hugh Laurie (Dr. Cockroach Ph.D.) Will Arnett (the Missing Link) Kiefer Sutherland (General W. R. Monger) Rainn Wilson (Galaxhar) Paul Rudd (Derek Dietl) and Stephen Colbert (the President)." including Susan — who I should mention has a mishap that makes her grotesquely gigantic though since the movie’s sense of scale is wildly inconsistent it’s hard to say just how gigantic — and what is technically only one alien a many-legged many-eyed intergalactic imperialist voiced by Rainn Wilson. San Francisco is destroyed and a few other kind of cool things happen but in spite of its striving for visual novelty the movie is curiously unmemorable partly because nearly all of its humor depends on your having seen something like it before even if you haven’t." like “Coraline” and “Bolt ” tries to take 3-D technology beyond gimmickry and to make it the basis for a new kind of visual spectacle. Since not all theaters are equipped to show the movie this way it has to work in its flat version as well and perhaps partly as a result the effects are often subtle noticeable less when objects or characters jump off the screen than when they move laterally across it." it is a highly competent smartly engineered delivery system for the very clichés it pretends to subvert." ungodly terrestrial creatures — into wacky goofy familiar figures. The movie directed by Rob Letterman and Conrad Vernon from a many-authored script comes out of DreamWorks Animation and offers the latest twist on the easygoing parodic formula refined in the studio’s “Shrek” franchise and last year’s “Kung Fu Panda.”" an apparent disaster that will of course turn out to be a blessing. This is because the would-be bride Susan (Reese Witherspoon) is a charming young woman betrothed to a self-absorbed cad (Paul Rudd) whose eventual comeuppance provides a nice sequel-enabling coda after the crazy action sequences are done." there is a brainy scientist-monster (Hugh Laurie) a vain macho monster (Will Arnett) and a speechless fuzzy gigantic monster that provides the film’s gratuitous hat-tip to the Japanese anime tradition." but there does seem to be more of it. Everything looks bigger and rounder. The environment is deeper and thicker. The blob of blue goo with one eye and Seth Rogen’s voice is more palpably quiveringly slimy." named B.O.B. is an entirely predictable supporting character in a movie like this:  the dumb one whose off-the-wall observations and behind-the-beat non sequiturs provide a steady stream of mild and easy laughs. Somehow Mr. Rogen whose next live-action vehicle opens in a few weeks keeps postponing the moment when we tire of him. His affable stoner vibe is the best thing in “Monsters  vs. Aliens.”" Maya Forbes Wally Wolodarsky Jonathan Aibel and Glenn Berger based on a story by Mr. Letterman and Mr. Vernon; edited by Joyce Arrastia and Eric Dapkewicz; music by Henry Jackman; production designer David James; produced by Lisa Stewart; released by DreamWorks Pictures and Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." 
6519
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27haun.html
“The Haunting in Connecticut” gives you the creeps the giggles and the groans in almost equal measure." it’s left to the family’s terminally ill son (Kyle Gallner earnestly moping) to handle the disgruntled former clients. Apparently their mortician liked to do more than just embalm." Kyle Gallner (Matt Campbell) Amanda Crew (Wendy) Martin Donovan (Peter Campbell) and Elias Koteas (Reverend Popescu)." Adam Swica; edited by Tom Elkins; music by Robert J. Kral; production designer Alicia Keywan; produced by Paul Brooks Andrew Trapani Daniel Farrands and Wendy Rhoads; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." water turns into blood and corpses turn into insulation." the movie  refers to “Psycho ” “The Shining” and “The Exorcist” by way of Amityville. But these mnemonics are far less distracting than the endlessly prompting screeching score. Stories like this need hush to work: the rustle of a shroud and the dry whisper of ghostly conversation can’t compete with shrieking violins." Peter Cornwell delivers some genuinely grisly imagery: a rusty tin filled with eyelid trimmings — their lashes still attached — and a spew of brocadelike ectoplasm. Most unsettling of all are the peaceful photographs of dead people that link the movie’s parallel worlds; as the Icelandic filmmaker Hrabba Gunnarsdottir proved in her mesmerizing documentary “Corpus Camera ” images of the deceased can provide a great deal more than closure." 
6520
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/27/movies/27cros.html
the gee-whiz rhetoric and breathless amateurism of “The Cross” is not likely to inspire. “The Cross” is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested) for thematic material some violent images and mild language including drug references." the evangelical minister Arthur Blessit took it upon himself to carry a large wooden crucifix around the world. With the help of a wheel affixed to the end of the cross a decent pair of shoes and the motivating fervor of a man who believed that Jesus was telling him what to do Mr. Blessit succeeded over the next  40 years traversing  nearly 40 000 miles." but you won’t find much reflection in “The Cross.” If Mr. Blessit’s calling appears from certain perspectives a fairly demented way to spend one’s life the point of view taken in this fawning documentary portrait is restricted to that of an awestruck acolyte." without ever clarifying the nature of this relationship (relative? follower? sidekick? personal assistant?) the director Matthew Crouch offers a crumb of skepticism before laying out a feast of adulation for this modern-day “superprophet.”" Laurie Crouch Richard Cook and Mr. Blinn; released by Gener8Xion Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." 
6521
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20dupl.html
Robert Elswit; edited by John Gilroy; music by James Newton Howard; production designer Kevin Thompson; produced by Jennifer Fox Kerry Orent and Laura Bickford; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 5 minutes." ” but that was surely because the atmosphere in that somber little chamber piece was too damp. Here from the moment they meet sipping frozen drinks at a Middle Eastern Fourth of July barbecue a crackle of sexual tension ignites between them." sexy comedy masquerading as a twisty tale of intrigue and vice versa. And as soon as you grow impatient with the pre- or postcoital repartee of Ms. Roberts and Mr. Owen a nimble army of supporting players comes forward to deliver Mr. Gilroy’s mordantly funny dialogue with perfectly straight faces." ” he confesses. “I sometimes act like this but this is completely different.”" responding to pickup lines that sound as if they were memorized from a feature in Maxim." the movie effervesces instead. The epic struggle between Burkett & Randle and Equikrom is in a way a global-capitalism red herring the scaffolding for a different more intimate sort of combat. If what thrills you is the swift-moving unrelenting contest between equal and opposing forces then the movies you seek out are surely the great romantic comedies of the studio era verbal boxing matches that draw blood and end in kisses. And you have to go back that far — to the glory days of Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant let’s say — to find a duel of sharp wits hidden agendas and simmering desires as satisfying as what transpires between Julia Roberts and Clive Owen." embodying different styles of corporate arrogance while their underlings and enforcers (notably Denis O’Hare Kathleen Chalfant Tom McCarthy and Rick Worthy) display the varieties of sycophancy treachery vanity and incompetence found in every cubicle farm ever so slightly heightened for comic and suspenseful effect. (Carrie Preston is also marvelous in a few scenes as a Burkett & Randle employee who falls for Mr. Owen in his purest and slyest Cary Grant moment.)" Clive Owen (Ray Koval) Tom Wilkinson (Howard Tully) Paul Giamatti (Richard Garsik) Denis O’Hare (Duke Monahan) Kathleen Chalfant (Pam Frales) Tom McCarthy (Jeff Bauer) Carrie Preston (Barbara Bofferd) and Rick Worthy (Dale Raimes)." ambiguous roll in the hay Claire and Ray retired from government work are embroiled in the Burkett-Equikrom war. A series of flashbacks establishes that they are working together but the point of each of those scenes which bring us closer to the present (via London Miami and Cleveland) is to make us wonder which is playing the other. Or even hard as it may be for Ray or Claire or anyone else to believe whether their allegiance rooted in lust greed and maybe something more is sincere and aboveboard after all." falls into the honey trap she has rigged just by standing around the garden in a flowery dress looking bored. She — Claire is what she’s called though who knows if it’s her real name — is C.I.A.; he — we’ll call him Ray — is MI6. Apparently they’re not on the same side but that’s a minor political detail in which the movie has no further concern." and the only scene of true slapstick in a very funny picture comes during the opening titles when the chief executives of the two companies come to blows on a rain-soaked tarmac in front of their corporate jets seconded by squads of anxious senior vice presidents. I could have watched their flailing sputtering fisticuffs played in slow motion with the sound drained away for at least two hours imagining any number of real-life C.E.O.’s in place of Paul Giamatti and Tom Wilkinson who play the two angry captains of industry. Even if the rest of  “Duplicity” had fizzled it would be worth seeing for that sequence alone." and also more or less as you always suspected it would. But the answer really depends on which movie you think you’ve been watching:  the one about love or the one about power; the cynical farce or the secretly sincere examination of manners and morals in the age of globalization; the cat-and-mouse or the dog-eat-dog. Not that you can necessarily tell until the very last moment which is which." decorated with eye-candy vistas of London New York Dubai and Rome (among other intrigue-ridden spots) — has suffered a bit of an identity crisis since the end of the cold war. Yes the James Bond franchise soldiers on but even at the height of Soviet-American brinksmanship 007 always conducted his tongue-in-cheek operations on the margins of the grand geopolitical chess game facing down cartoon supervillains rather than K.G.B. alter egos. It was symmetry — two big nations armed to the teeth sending brilliant cynical operatives out to do their shadowy dirty work — that defined the classic spy game in for instance the novels of John le Carré. But the current age of asymmetrical decentralized conflicts has taken some of the fun and the moral complexity out of fictional espionage on screen and off." but the film itself the second (after “Michael Clayton”) written and directed by Tony Gilroy has many more layers and facets.  Its densely coiled plot and splintered chronology reveal a cascade of familiar genres and styles. It’s a caper movie a love story — with Clive Owen and Julia Roberts no less —  an extra-dry corporate satire. However you describe it “Duplicity” is superior entertainment the most elegantly pleasurable movie of its kind to come around in a very long time." Mr. Owen on whom a two-piece suit becomes as brazenly sexual a uniform as anything you can imagine opens many bottles of Champagne and looks hungrily at Ms. Roberts even though Claire is more of a natural predator than Ray. For this  film her first real starring role in quite a while Ms. Roberts has almost entirely left behind the coltish America’s-sweetheart mannerisms except when she uses them strategically to disarm or confuse. Curvier than she used to be and with a touch of weariness around her eyes and impatience in her voice she is at 41 umistakably in her prime." humiliated unmanned — and totally smitten. What follows between them is perhaps his revenge perhaps her repentance and maybe her second act. He was so easy to fool the first time after all." Mr. Gilroy has tried to restore some of those qualities building a fascinating puzzle on the meager foundation of Robert Ludlum’s airport doorstops. “Duplicity ” in the absence of contending more or less evenly matched superpowers deploys two multinational corporations Burkett & Randle and Equikrom who conduct a steely ruthless game of proxy battles psy-ops counterintelligence and disinformation. Their executives talk the language of grand strategy and total war and even though their battlefield is the global market for dandruff shampoo premium diapers and moisturizing creams (or lotions —  the distinction apparently matters) nobody regards the stakes as trivial." its violence almost entirely rhetorical." 
6522
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20skil.html
” says Tommy (a terrific Brian D. Phelan) and he should know. An infantile slacker and oblivious comic foil for his best friends Max (Spencer Berger) and Dave (Gabriel Tigerman) Tommy is the glue that holds “Skills Like This” — and the friendship — together. Saving Tommy from himself is a full-time job." the fallout from this awkward spree will as expected reconfigure each character’s life. Yet the offbeat chemistry of the cast along with Monty Miranda’s eye-catching direction (he knows when to move a camera and more important when to hold still) make all the difference: this is a movie that tries hard to skirt the obvious." however is Max a failed writer with hair like tumbleweed and a newfound knack for robbery. When an impromptu bank heist yields a sack of cash and the admiration of a doe-eyed teller (Kerry Knuppe) Max hones his larceny skills on a convenience store and a fast-food drive-through." “Skills Like This” gazes indulgently on 20-something aimlessness and the comfort of assigned roles. In Mr. Miranda’s hands sloth can be more appealing than you might think." Brian D. Phelan (Tommy) Gabriel Tigerman (Dave) Kerry Knuppe (Lucy) Jennifer Batter (Lauren) Ned Bellamy (Uncle Morris) Marta Martin (Rosa) and Zach Cumer (Cousin Jeramiah)." based on a story by Mr. Berger and Gabriel Tigerman; director of photography Robert F. Smith; edited by Rock Obenchain; music by Andy Monley; production designer Pamela Chavez; produced by Donna Dewey Brian D. Phelan Mr. Obenchain Paul Aaron and Timothy Gray; released by Shadow Distribution. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6523
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20twen.html
friends since college and now grappling variously with their social romantic and professional anxieties." David Tumblety; edited by Todd Holmes and Adam Raponi; music by Jeff Toyne; production designer Gregory Kenney; produced by Aina Abiodun and Mr. Johnson; released by Wolfe Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." the heroin addict Felix (Thomas Sadoski) — are scarcely more compelling. Ditto Tony (Andrew Wei Lin) a gay man uneasily negotiating his affair with a healthy H.I.V.-positive lover (Bill Sage)." even more so after going into business with an arrogant venture capitalist (Terry Serpico). She’s a highly successful financier who worries that her status comes from being the token “hot Asian chick” at her bank." Nicole Bilderback (Julie Kim) Ryan Locke (Andrew Hatch) Colin Fickes (Ben Barr) Andrew Wei Lin (Tony Kim) Bill Sage (Robert Cameron) and Terry Serpico (Louie Kennick)." “The New Twenty” manufactures a mess of conflicts and comeuppances for its characters.  Whether as someone quips “30 is the new 20” (whatever that means) the movie is admirable for taking these people seriously even if it does little to illuminate their individual or cultural significance." 
6524
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20stea.html
whose presence here gives the enterprise a gravity of purpose that it clearly does not deserve. Approaching female loneliness with the emotional subtlety of a telenovela the movie spins three separate tales about strangers whose only connection is the steam room where they sweat out their troubles." three generations one problem: “Steam ” a movie so cheesy and so poorly acted that it should never have seen the light of day." David Takashi Oye; edited by Thom Obarksi and Christopher Gosch; music by Damian Montano; production designer Beth Mickle; produced by Lisa Basson Kennedi Martin and Mr. Schickner. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 2 hours. This film is not rated." Ally Sheedy (Laurie) Kate Siegel (Elizabeth) and Chelsea Handler (Jacky)." a brittle divorcée battling a boorish ex-husband for control of their young son joy — and transcendent sex — is found in the arms of a significantly younger soccer coach. For Elizabeth (Kate Siegel) a prim college student battling controlling Roman Catholic parents freedom — and transformative sex — is delivered by a sultry lesbian classmate. Meanwhile Doris (Ms. Dee) a reclusive widow is coaxed from her memory-filled home by a sprightly suitor; whether they share more than companionship is not divulged." “Steam” is the kind of movie in which a single Sapphic embrace turns a timid churchgoer into a pierced political rebel. Ms. Sheedy and Ms. Dee at least deserve so much better." 
6525
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20peda.html
Boris Grygor; edited by Agnes Grandits; music by Mr. Tec; production designer Claire LaCompte; produced by Chris Arruda Darren Chilton David A. Heath Kelly Lawman and Haydee Sabogal; released by Cinevolve Studios and Pinkplot Productions. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. This film is not rated." a Massachusetts librarian discovers the perils of resisting the Patriot Act and it’s well worth straining your eyes to see the title of the book she’s reading in the final scene." “We Pedal Uphill: Stories From the States 2001-2008” sees a country mired in paranoia injustice and intolerance." each unfolding in a different state the movie slides smoothly from racism in Tennessee to election fraud in Ohio from corporate greed in Oklahoma to railroad chicanery in Nebraska. The performances are across-the-board solid (most of the cast is theater-based) and although the quality of the segments varies the thoughtfulness of the writing (by Roland Tec who also directs) does much to atone for the monochromatic palette and rudimentary camerawork." Alvin Epstein (Mortimer) Charles Parnell (Horton) Kate Blumberg (Daryl) Jenny Bacon (Phyl) and Marylouise Burke (Linda)." “We Pedal Uphill” balances the heavy-handed (a liberal talk-radio host looking beneath his car for explosives) and the delicate (a camera tracking backward through an abandoned factory while the voices of long-gone employees chatter eerily on the soundtrack)." these wide-ranging mini-tales coast on a gently insistent tone of regret. Without pointing fingers or naming names Mr. Tec reminds us that change does not happen overnight." 
6526
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20nomb.html
Casper is as sentimentalized a fiction as one of those dirty-faced angels who ran around studio back lots in the 1930s and his means of salvation Sayra isn’t any  better. The roads they travel and hardships they endure are finally narrative arcs calibrated for maximum drama excitement and entertainment. What keeps the movie from tipping into full-blown exploitation like “City of God ” which turns third-world misery into art-house thrills is Mr. Fukunaga’s sincerity. What keeps you watching is his superb eye. Working with his cinematographer Adriano Goldman he fills in the cracks of his story with moments of beauty — children tossing oranges up to the train Casper sleeping under a canopy of trees — that make you want to see what comes next." “Sin Nombre” — “without  name” in Spanish — tracks two parallel journeys that inevitably meet brought together after a fatal encounter. The first by far liveliest  voyage begins in the chaos of Tapachula in Chiapas Mexico where Casper (Edgar Flores) a teenage member of the vicious street gang  Mara Salvatrucha is making a fast run toward an early grave. Casper meets his destiny when his story collides with that of Sayra (Paulina Gaitan) a solemn-eyed none-too-sharp Honduran teenager who is riding the rails to Texas with her father and uncle.   The teenagers meet cute gangsta style when another Salvatrucha member attacks her during a heist on the train and is assaulted in turn." honeyed light in “Sin Nombre” beautifies and softens every ugly moment in this equivocating (inspirational  yet hard-boiled) story about geographic and moral border crossings. Written and directed by the young American Cary Joji Fukunaga making his feature debut the film comes with a veritable certificate of authenticity: it was shot  in Mexico and is performed in Spanish by Latin American actors.  The credits are also in Spanish including the  information that the project was “developed with the assistance of the Sundance Institute Feature Film Program ”  an acknowledgment of its truer more complex provenance." “Sin Nombre ” despite its location shooting and unnerving glimpses into the Mara Salvatrucha unwinds exactly like any number of movies juiced up by graphic violence and hinged to ritualistic redemption: terrible things happen but the bad times and vibes are nominally assuaged by some final-act uplift.  Thus Casper suffers horribly because of the Mara Salvatrucha whose vile rituals get plenty of screen time including the gang initiation of his 12-year-old  friend Smiley (Kristyan Ferrer). Members need to be baptized in blood to join and so Smiley puts a bullet in  a tied-up whimpering gang rival who is then — cut to the shot of a bowl of coarsely chopped raw meat — fed to the gang’s dogs." Edgar Flores (Willy/Casper) Kristyan Ferrer (Smiley) Tenoch Huerta Mejía (Lil’ Mago) Diana García (Martha Marlene) Luis Fernando Peña (Sol) Héctor Jiménez (Leche/Hombre Herido) Gerardo Taracena  (Horacio) and Guillermo Villegas (Orlando)." more unsettling dog-eats-man scene in Johnnie To’s great mob movie “Election II” — it’s how the violence is exploited within the context of the story. In “Election II ” the man-is-meat scene underscores the essential moral rot of the mobsters whom Mr. To refuses to sentimentalize. In “Sin Nombre ” the guy is fed to the dogs both to titillate the audience (hence the shot of the dog bowl) and to show the look of disgust on Casper’s face. His revulsion is critical because without it he wouldn’t be as likable — character likability is a creative imperative as much in Sundance as in Hollywood — which  makes him more like a person and less like a screenwriting conceit." Adriano Goldman; edited by Luis Carballar and Craig McKay; music by Marcelo Zarvos; production designer Claudio Contreras; produced by Amy Kaufman; released by Focus Features. In Spanish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." or MS-13 has a wretched perverse history: the gang is thought to have been  started  in the 1980s in Los Angeles by Salvadoran immigrants whose families had fled the civil war in their country a war partly paid for by the United States. The decentralized gang soon branched out infiltrating most of the rest of the United States. And then after members were deported to their native country it spread  beyond Central America taking its brand of street terrorism transnational. You don’t learn any of this in “Sin Nombre ” despite the film’s veneer of (gritty yet lovingly lighted) realism. Mr. Fukunaga may have traveled through Mexico  to research  the  film but he hasn’t strayed far from Hollywood to tell his tale." 
6527
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20love.html
the suggestion of an A-cup — Mr. Segel has butched up somewhat to play Sydney Fife a surprising object of platonic affection for Peter Klaven (Mr. Rudd). The last time Mr. Segel appeared on the big screen was in “Forgetting Sarah Marshall ” in which he played the feminized hero a man who cries over his broken heart." “I can see your vagina” when he balks at jumping off a cliff into the ocean. Here though it’s Mr. Segel who plays gender police and deploys the requisite gyno-joke by affectionately telling Peter to take his tampon out guy-speak for chill." a slack screen presence who owns the patent on male adorableness and is charming to watch even if all he can do are variations on a theme: adorable embarrassment adorable goofiness adorable sexiness. He’s the ultimate in nonthreatening masculinity (Seth Rogen seems macho by comparison) the male equivalent of one of those plush animals girls and even some women like to keep piled high on their beds. Given that he’s more of a character actor than leading man he’s perfectly cast in the “girl” role." if you prefer a femi-man. He’s far more feminized than even his gay brother Robbie (Andy Samberg) whom their father (J. K. Simmons) calls his best friend. And so encouraged by fiancée and family Peter goes looking for a soul brother a search that first leads to some regrettable male bonding involving poker and puke and a little tongue (from Thomas Lennon) during a misconstrued man date." based on a story by Mr. Levin; director of photography Lawrence Sher; edited by William Kerr; music by Theodore Shapiro; production designer Andrew Laws; produced by Donald De Line and Mr. Hamburg; released by DreamWorks Pictures and Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." according to the strait-laced if gay-friendly people around him is that he doesn’t have a dude to call his own a best man who can stand by his side when he marries Zooey (Rashida Jones)." wrote Victor Hugo. But a romantic comedy without a female lead well that’s just a fine bromance and now Hollywood business as usual as most recently demonstrated by “I Love You Man ” a fitfully funny comedy that owes much to Judd Apatow the king of such sublimated man-on-man affairs. Though Mr. Apatow isn’t officially credited his DNA is all over this bromance which stars Paul Rudd as a wuss who mans up by befriending a guy’s guy (Jason Segel) whose masculinity is so secure he wears Ugg boots and shorts to walk his wee dog." MAN" Jason Segel (Sydney Fife) Rashida Jones (Zooey) Andy Samberg (Robbie) J. K. Simmons (Oz) Jane Curtin (Joyce) Jon Favreau (Barry) Thomas Lennon (Doug) Jaime Pressly (Denise) and Lou Ferrigno (himself)." playing a less irritating character here than in “Forgetting Sarah Marshall ” manages to be almost as adorable if slightly less ingratiating than his co-star. More conceptual than believable Sydney alternately recalls Dean Martin (after a few) and a far tamer version of the ultimate dude a k a Jeff Lebowski. Unlike the Dude however the character played by Jeff Bridges in the Coen brothers comedy Sydney isn’t struggling against the machine or spinning in circles to the sounds of Captain Beefheart. He’s just another would-be kid whose childhood friends have all moved on — to women families and careers — but who wants to keep hanging out with the guys which makes him a lot like the men who make these movies." Peter is trying to sell Lou Ferrigno’s mansion (the former Incredible Hulk puts in amusing nongreen face time in a small role) when Sydney starts chowing down on his gourmet sandwiches. A bachelor on the hunt for diamond-collared cougars Sydney lives a low-impact Los Angeles life with a pooch and a romper room crammed with television sets electric guitars a drum kit and a designated masturbation chair. Interest blooms into camaraderie when the men discover a mutual love of the band Rush which between this and its appearance last year on “The Colbert Report ” is definitely riding a pop cultural wave." working from a story idea by Larry Levin with whom he wrote the script doesn’t do anything with the camera but he sets a nice easygoing tone for the actors." Man” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Dirty words." 
6528
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20know.html
rather than with him since Mr. Cage rarely expresses mirth on screen. Instead he favors a demented compulsive intensity which can sometimes be kind of fun for example in the “National Treasure” movies. In “Knowing ” though he seems to be exploring the rich vein of crazy he tapped in Neil LaBute’s train-wreck remake of “The Wicker Man.” Mr. Cage screams and yells and flails smacks a tree with a baseball bat waves a gun at a slender blond alien and barks “this is not a crank call” into a pay phone after calling in a breathless warning of a terrorist attack." lurching two hours of “Knowing” will make you long for the end of the world even as you worry that there will not be time for all your questions to be answered. Who are those slender blond folk called “the Whisper People” by John’s son and Diana’s daughter? Are they goth vampires who showed up early to audition for the “Twilight” sequel? Former members of Kraftwerk? Did they steal all those smooth black pebbles from a day spa after a hot stone massage? Is that why they seem so relaxed?" you will figure out who they are long before the astrophysicist does and stop caring long before that." Juliet Snowden and Stiles White based on a story by Mr. Pearson; director of photography Simon Duggan; edited by Richard Learoyd; music by Marco Beltrami; production designer Steven Jones-Evans; produced by Todd Black Jason Blumenthal Steve Tisch and Mr. Proyas; released by Summit Entertainment. Running time: 2 hours 1 minute." John Koestler is like most movie dads these days a widower stricken with grief and trying to raise a cute precocious young son (Chandler Canterbury). Once John starts running the numbers from the spooky girl’s spreadsheet the tone of the movie switches from foreboding creepiness to apocalyptic hysteria summed up less in the occasional explosion or transportation-related fireball than in Rose Byrne’s incessant shrieking. She plays Diana daughter of the spooky schoolgirl (and mother of another one; both are played by Lara Robinson) and evolves from mysterious stranger to potential love interest to raving hysteric in record time." you still can’t help feeling that he’s overreacting." Rose Byrne (Diana) Chandler Canterbury (Caleb Koestler) Lara Robinson (Abby/Lucinda) Ben Mendelsohn (Phil Beckman) Nadia Townsend (Grace) Alan Hopgood (Reverend Koestler) and Danielle Carter (Miss Taylor 1959)." ” directed by Alex Proyas (“Dark City ” “I Robot”) seemed to be enjoying themselves though it may have been at the movie’s expense. (Just as well since they were seeing it free.) If your intention is to make a brooding hauntingly allegorical terror-thriller it’s probably not a good sign when spectacles of mass death and intimations of planetary destruction are met with hoots and giggles." ” which features slender blond aliens intimations of apocalypse clairvoyant children and Nicolas Cage as an astrophysicist. If the thing manages to avoid complete preposterousness the audience can still have a good time." 
6529
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20hung.html
more than any political strategy or ideological principle is the real subject of “Hunger ” which Mr. McQueen wrote with the Irish playwright Enda Walsh. In insisting that they be granted political status — that the bombings and killings they have planned and committed be respected as something more than simple crimes — the I.R.A. fighters first refuse to wear prison uniforms huddling in blankets in cells smeared with rotting food and excrement and crawling with vermin." if unassuming virtuosity on display elsewhere in “Hunger” — including during the painful final scenes of Sands’s death — but this long stretch of talk is in some ways Mr. McQueen’s most audacious and impressive cinematic gambit. Having done so much with images with eloquent passages that tell everything without dialogue he stops to acknowledge the power of words." fervently wittily and at length in a conversation with Dominic Moran (Liam Cunningham) a Roman Catholic priest who is an old friend and something of a moderate. Father Dom pleads with Bobby calling him delusional and accusing him of insufficient reverence for life and Bobby answers every objection with frightening clarity. Their debate takes place in an empty visiting room and lasts for more than 20 minutes much of it a single shot of the two men facing each other across a table smoking." often grueling film Mr. McQueen makes you acutely conscious of the relationship between language and action the gap between relatively abstract terms like “resistance ” “radicalism” and “hunger strike” and the concrete deeds that give them flesh. The scope of “Hunger” is too narrow its methods too intensive to offer anything like a full historical analysis of the Troubles in Northern Ireland and it does not really set out to explain why Sands and his comrades did what they did. Instead Mr. McQueen shows how they did it and in what circumstances and the fruit of his inquiry is both horrifying and strange to say beautiful." each quite different in length and mood) deals with the “blanket protest ” as the no-wash no-clothes phase of resistance was known. We hear the voice of Margaret Thatcher on the radio implacably asserting the nullity of the I.R.A.’s tactics and cause and while Mr. McQueen does not ignore the Republican terrorism it is clear enough that the preponderance of his curiosity and his sympathy as well lies with the prisoners. The way he shoots an inmate named Davey Gillen (Brian Milligan) in particular framing his stringy hair and sparse pointed beard in orange-tinted shadows pointedly evokes the iconography of Renaissance painting." apparently intent on their own debasement they are at the same time defiantly affirming their own humanity. The guards drag them from their cells and the forced washing (accompanied by beatings) is a violation a form of abuse. The ordinary concepts of decency and cruelty are somehow inverted resulting in terror and confusion among the guards and an almost beatific calm in the ranks of the inmates." who starved himself to death along with nine other prisoners in the hunger strike that followed the blanket action. Sands played by Michael Fassbender is charismatic and full of impish life and his choice of martyrdom is at once an act of rational strategic calculation and a measure of his single-minded overpowering zeal." Liam Cunningham (Father Dominic Moran) Stuart Graham (Raymond Lohan) Brian Milligan (Davey Gillen) and Liam McMahon (Gerry Campbell)." Sean Bobbitt; edited by Joe Walker; music by David Holmes with Leo Abrahams; production designer Tom McCullagh; produced by Laura Hastings-Smith and Robin Gutch; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." deliberate attention — an approach at once compassionate and dispassionate —  “Hunger” explores physical extremity and political extremism. In recreating the atmosphere at the Maze prison in Northern Ireland where Irish Republican Army militants waged a series of protests against the British authorities in 1981 Steve McQueen a Turner Prize-winning visual artist and first-time filmmaker finds an almost uncanny balance of violence and quiet. The brutality in the film is pervasive and often stomach turningly graphic but what is perhaps most unnerving is the tact patience and care with which Mr. McQueen depicts its causes and effects." the camera lingers over tiny sensual details homing in on crumbs as they fall into a napkin in the man’s lap and examining the scabs and scrapes on his knuckles. This kind of unhurried watchfulness as if filmmaking were entirely an act of observation rather than of reconstruction conjures a sense of dread as well as intimacy. Nothing that happens at the Maze is hidden euphemized or excused though even the most harrowing scenes have a curious air of decorum as if Mr. McQueen was trying to bring human dignity into a place where it has all but vanished." 
6530
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20funk.html
Rachel Leigh Cook (Ms. Thorne) Eddie Jemison (Ron Funk) Amy Ryan (Ms. Wright) Stephen Root (Steve) Lucy Davis (Janet Funk) and Grace Zabriskie (Mrs. Funk)." vulgar womanizing and language." acts like a comedy and sounds like a comedy but it isn’t funny. This is a problem in a movie that aims for laughs. It’s also part of the point.  “Bob Funk” has sadder things on its mind." a slightly goofy but eminently lovable addition to the Funk family business and the object of Bob’s affections. Given the ham-handed nomenclature she might just as easily  have been called Little Miss Sunshine." based on his play “Bob Funk in Therapy”; director of photography Lisa Wiegand; music by Tim Montijo; production designer April Glover; produced by Keith Kjarval Kurt Rauer and Mr. Montijo; released by Cinema Epoch. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." sets situations  —  has a perky glossy feel to it the slightly heightened reality of an upscale sitcom. Mr. Carlisle adapted the material from his own play yet it doesn’t have the stilted suffocating atmosphere of most stage-to-screen works. It also doesn’t have a coherent point of view;  it’s pitched uneasily between affable slacker yuks that fall flat and a more sentimental agenda about Bob becoming  sober and learning life lessons." the film stars Michael Leydon Campbell as the loudmouth alcoholic Bob the most disaffected employee of the family business a high-end bedding emporium called Funk Foam and Futon. Bob straggles in with hangovers only to hit on customers or pass out. He is in well a funk. Mom (Grace Zabriskie) demotes him to janitor." 
6531
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20edge1.html
if Thomas and his set were as unwaveringly self-involved and tiresome as this lot. None are more tiresome than Thomas  himself (Matthew Rhys) one of those ghastly artist-monsters of which the movies are so fond. To judge from this film and “Love Is the Devil ” his far superior 1998 biographical portrait of the painter Francis Bacon the director John Maybury is firmly in thrall to the idea of the artist-monster which is why both play out somewhat like horror movies. The difference is that while Bacon’s unhappy life and haunted paintings offered fertile ground for Mr. Maybury’s dark imaginings the story here plucked from  Thomas’s life and embellished proves almost entirely devoid of interest." based on an idea by Rebekah Gilbertson and the books “A Farm Two Mansions and a Bungalow” by David N. Thomas and “Personal Sketch of Vava and Personal Sketch of Papa” by Esther Killick; director of photography Jonathan Freeman; edited by Emma E. Hickox; music by Angelo Badalamenti; production designer Alan MacDonald; produced by Ms. Gilbertson and Sarah Radclyffe; released by Capitol Films and BBC Films. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." just as Vera (Keira Knightley) a torch singer starts flashing her big bright-white distinctly nonperiod British teeth at her old friend Dylan. From the moony look in his eyes he has a thing for her though it takes time — and a late teary revelation — to understand the nature of his feelings. Part of the problem is that the screenplay by Sharman Macdonald (Ms. Knightley’s mother) tries to wrest something profound from his bond with Vera even as it fails to convince that the bond woman or even the poet are worthy of all this attention." Sienna Miller (Caitlin Thomas) Cillian Murphy (William Killick) and Matthew Rhys (Dylan Thomas)." one that’s heavily imbibed with much self-lacerating gusto in the grim British drama “The Edge of Love.” A fiction inspired by fact and more than a little fancy the film examines the relationship between the Welsh writer Dylan Thomas and Vera Phillips a childhood friend whose husband shortly after returning home from World War II came close to shooting the poet the poet’s wife and some others to smithereens with a machine gun all while shouting “You’re nothing but a lot of egoists!”" and a little nudity." but it helps to have a hint of the human when you’re trying to tell a love story or four: Dylan loves Vera who loves him in turn and perhaps Dylan’s wife though she’s also smitten with her own trigger-happy husband William (a detached Cillian Murphy popping in and out). Mr. Maybury’s visual style  —  the nicotine-brown color palette the ugly gashes of red the distorted and fractured image plane — suggests that he takes a gloomy view of affairs of the heart. A sequence in which he cuts back and forth between a woman giving birth and a soldier having a limb hacked off suggests he doesn’t have much use for those slabs of meat called human beings either." but she doesn’t yet have the ability to dig into a character without greater support from the script and her director. She certainly gets little help from Mr. Maybury who mostly seems interested in her as a pliable object a mannequin he can pose and paint. (Her face looks eerily like a tinted period photograph in some of the early scenes.) She’s best in her exchanges with a very fine persuasively vulnerable Sienna Miller who plays Thomas’s wife Caitlin. Though the women who are both paraded in states of undress before the camera come across more like naughty schoolgirls than racy bohemians they bring warmth and tenderness to their scenes together." 
6532
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20cape.html
from which no joke idea or molecule of entertainment can escape “Super Capers” stars Justin Whalin as Ed Gruberman an obsequious would-be superhero whose delusions of grandeur get him sentenced to the Super Capers halfway house for dysfunctional super (and not so super) beings." and movies so inexplicably aggressively awful that your only possible response is to stare stupefied at the screen and ask yourself how such a fiasco could have come into existence." “Super Capers” is instead a monumental negative achievement: a super catastrophe." Martin Rodenberg; music by Nathan Lanier; production designer Scott Enge; produced by Mr. Griggs and Reuben Lim; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." a bumbling egomaniac; Felicia Freeze (Danielle Harris) a chilly femme fatale prone to fingertip blasts of cheap  digital effects; Herman Brainard (Samuel Lloyd) a fat-headed mentalist who does little to raise the movie’s IQ; and Puffer Boy a kind of human puffer fish played by Ray Griggs who also wrote and directed the picture." will “Super Capers” stop for one blessed second from scoring every on-screen banality with exaggerated cartoon sound effects? The movie is as aurally hysterical as an episode of “SpongeBob SquarePants” without a fraction of that show’s visual energy and unruly wit." Christine Lakin (Red) Adam West (Man-Bat/Cab Driver) Samuel Lloyd (Herman Brainard) Ryan McPartlin (Will Powers) Ray Griggs (Puffer Boy) Danielle Harris (Felicia Freeze) Michael Rooker (Dark-Winged Vesper/Judge) and Doug Jones (Agent Smith No. 1)." 
6533
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/movies/20buck.html
“The Great Buck Howard” also stars Colin Hanks as Troy Gable a law-school dropout and aspiring writer who impulsively takes a job as Buck’s road manager. As Troy Mr. Hanks (the son of Tom who is a producer of the movie and appears in two scenes as Troy’s sternly disapproving father) narrates the story while following Buck from city to city watching him perform a shopworn potpourri of magic tricks and hypnosis for half-full houses. Mr. Hanks exudes the same easygoing likability as his father without the magnetic star quality." who has the officious mechanical airs of a contemporary publicist down pat lends the movie pungent comic undertones as do Debra Monk and Steve Zahn as a pair of foolishly besotted Buck Howard fans who insist on shepherding their idol around the city." Buck can veer in seconds from a charmer to a nit-picking tantrum-throwing diva. But he is less a tyrant than an eccentric. If Mr. Malkovich locates the demons inside a character who is apparently too self-absorbed to have enjoyed any kind of love life he portrays his quest for redemption as well intentioned. Buck can exude a witheringly icy hauteur one moment and  a disorienting aura of not being entirely present the next. In front of an audience however he is shamelessly happily obsequious and the crowds eat it up." Buck greets people with an exaggerated arm-pumping parody of Kreskin’s vigorous handshake. As interpreted by Mr. Malkovich who is at least a decade too young for the role of a showbiz old-timer Kreskin’s courtly geniality assumes a slightly creepy edge of self-deluding egomania." Colin Hanks (Troy Gable) Emily Blunt (Valerie Brennan) Steve Zahn (Kenny) Debra Monk (Doreen) and Tom Hanks (Mr. Gable)." Tak Fujimoto; edited by Myron Kerstein; music by Blake Neely; production designer Gary Frutkoff; produced by Tom Hanks and Gary Goetzman; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes." Sherlock Holmes detective skills or whatever  they are  — to find the money. In a 2007 interview Mr.  Kresge now 74 boasted that he had failed only nine times in his career to locate it. Buck however has a perfect record.  His difficulty in sniffing out the money at a Las Vegas lounge where he is making his big-time comeback  is the movie’s dramatic turning point." ” despite its many satirical thrusts insists on being nice. The film might be described as “The King of Comedy” with its fangs removed; it leaves a tiny but discernible afterglow." a stronghold of fan support as the place to recapture show business glory (and perhaps an invitation to appear on Jay Leno’s “Tonight Show”) with an exhibition of mass hypnosis. While in Cincinnati Troy has a fling with a hard-boiled publicist (Emily Blunt) who stands up to Buck when he turns petulant." ” an agreeable show business satire with a warm heart was inspired by the career of the Amazing Kreskin a k a George Joseph Kresge Jr. the 1970s television mind reader who still pops up on the tube now and then. Playing Buck Howard an entertainer with a similar career trajectory John Malkovich exaggerates the familiar mannerisms of this self-described professional mentalist to create a barbed but affectionate portrait of a second-string trouper struggling for a comeback." 
6534
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/18/movies/18feat.html
” heralds the opening title card acknowledging both the manufacture of Mr. Auder’s contemporary persona as well as the inescapable subjectivity of his documentary narrative. Though it touches on all aspects of his personal and professional life “The Feature” is primarily the story of Mr. Auder’s marriages first to the irrepressible Viva later to the introverted Cindy Sherman whose reluctance to be a subject of his omnivorous gregarious work opens up a rift in their relationship. Or that’s how Mr. Auder who narrates in his seductive half-mumbled French accent remembers things." and that alone makes the work of this underappreciated artist and filmmaker worth attending to. Largely shown in galleries his immense oeuvre — memoirs travelogues portraits ingenious television montages — hasn’t been easy to see. But a new feature cheekily called “The Feature ” opens his world to a new audience his aesthetic to a more conventional form and his achievement to the wider recognition it deserves. It’s a beautiful beguiling movie." like all his videos to Warhol’s let-the-camera-roll aesthetic “The Feature” is closer in tone to the limpid diary films of Jonas Mekas and the plangent memoir-poems of the filmmaker Philippe Garrel both of whom Mr. Auder counts among his many friends. His voice however is eminently his own: charismatic yet self-effacing tenderhearted but compelled by uncontrollable appetites (for sex heroin and subjects for the camera)." now 65 kept his camera running throughout as he would for much of the following 40 years amassing a vast archive of his life and times: 5 000 hours’ worth by his own estimate. “The Feature” plunges into this memory bank chasing down fleeting emotions privileged moments traces of faded experience. Supplementary footage directed by Andrew Neel shot on crisp high-definition video frames this aching autobiography with a fictionalized portrait of Mr. Auder’s present-day existence." but there’s artfulness to his seemingly unmediated recording. He’s a subtle and canny editor (abetted here by Luke Meyer) with a keen sense of rhythm and duration. The nearly three-hour running time of “The Feature” feels exactly right as does the unforced organic development of his themes — fatherhood relationships the egoism and freedom of a bohemian life." Mr. Neel and Luke Meyer; directors of photography Mr. Auder and Mr. Neel; edited by Mr. Meyer; produced by Ethan Palmer. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 2 hours 57 minutes. This film is not rated." we still don’t have a well-developed sense of (or perhaps consensus on) what constitutes beauty in the medium. Mr. Auder’s videos belong to any discussion of these evolving criteria. Now that high definition is de rigueur there’s great pleasure to be had in contemplating his early bleary low-resolution black-and-white images which now look less like disposable doodling than choice examples of video primitivism. They are as elusive and tantalizing as the photo-based paintings of Gerhard Richter or the recent low-fi video experiments of David Lynch." Mr. Auder fell into the Warhol scene and fell in love with one of its superstars the ethereal acid-tongued Viva. They married and had a child without relinquishing their bond to bohemia: a room in the Chelsea Hotel jaunts to Paris and Morocco sex drugs and bonhomie with members of the avant-garde the jet set and the demimonde." 
6535
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/18/movies/18vale.html
visit his yacht and watch him and his business partner Giancarlo Giammetti as they board a private jet with six scampering pugs. But these are only glimpses of his notoriously imperial lifestyle." majestically  coiffed with hooded eyes an orange-tinted tan and the peevish impatience of an absolute monarch: that is Valentino Garavani the Italian couturier known simply as Valentino as he appears in Matt Tyrnauer’s documentary portrait “Valentino: The Last Emperor.” Watching the movie is a little like gorging on chocolate and Champagne until that queasy moment arrives when you realize you’ve consumed far too much." valued in the hundreds of millions of dollars. The film is steeped in a mood of “La Dolce Vita” redux as Nino Rota’s film music bubbles incessantly in the background." based on a desert theme in which impossibly thin elegant models dressed in white slink among fake dunes built on what could pass as the set of a ’40s movie musical." now 77 has created hundreds of beautiful gowns for the most glamorous women (most famously Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis) since the 1960s. Born to do only this he insists he never had much aptitude for the business aspect of fashion or for anything else. As you observe him in his workshop supervising helpers who hand-stitch every sequin on every dress (there’s not a sewing machine in sight) you begin to appreciate his single-minded perfectionism in the service of a fantasy." including the equally imperious Karl Lagerfeld. Valentino is shown strolling hand in hand with Mr. Lagerfeld at Valentino’s July 2007 farewell bash in Rome two months after which he officially retired. Swallowed up by big business the great fashion houses of Europe are now mass-market franchises with designer names attached to all manner of clothing and accessories." whom he met at a cafe on the Via Veneto in Rome in 1960 (they disagree on exactly which cafe) became lovers then business partners. According to Mr. Giammetti if you added up the days they have spent apart since meeting it amounts to only two  months." “What do women want? ” he declares in oracular tones “They want to be beautiful.” As evidenced by the fantastic gowns he has created he has fulfilled those wishes to the extent that clothing can confer beauty where there was none; many of these garments are exquisite works of art. They are also timeless in the sense that Valentino’s opulent royal ideal of feminine raiment has always been largely untouched by trends." Tom Hurwitz; edited by Bob Eisenhardt and Frederic Tcheng; produced by Matt Kapp Mr. Tcheng and Mr. Tyrnauer; released by Truly Indie. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. In English Italian and French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." there is the climactic three-day blowout  —  an extravaganza worthy of a decadent  Roman emperor  —  commemorating Valentino’s 45th anniversary in fashion. It included a retrospective of his work at the Ara Pacis Museum a celebrity-packed black-tie ball at the Villa Borghese and a Cirque du Soleil-like spectacle at the Temple of Venus overlooking the Colosseum illuminated in his signature red with high-wire ballerinas flying to and fro. Celebration is too mild a word for this obscenely opulent party: the retirement staged as a coronation." when he fell in love with 1930s and ’40s American movies he remembers he was enthralled with Hollywood’s screen goddesses. A clip of stars descending a staircase in the 1941 movie “Ziegfeld Girl” suggests the template for all that followed." 
6536
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/14/movies/14alex.html
Justin Rice (Elliot) Barlow Jacobs (Jamie) Amy Seimetz (Hellen) Jane Adams (Director) and Josh Hamilton (Playwright)." available on the Movies on  Demand channel on most cable systems." Elliot (Justin Rice) heads out for a spell. She soon lands a part in a theater production (the movie was shot in Brooklyn) playing the romantic foil to a vague young man Jamie (the equally hazy Barlow Jacobs) for whom she develops well a vague interest. The two advance and parry on and increasingly off the stage even as Alex’s sister Hellen  (Amy Seimetz) moves in on Jamie. Inhibitions and clothes are shed amid awkward silences lurching conversations and tentative gestures as the focus shifts between life and the theater and the two realms become more and more blurred at least for Alex. The only thing truly in focus here is Ms. Weixler’s performance." a Web series) has managed to turn himself into an identifiable independent name despite having evinced little initial filmmaking talent. Things look better however in his latest effort “Alexander the Last ” a 72-minute (including credits) series of loosely connected scenes." Tex. or wherever. But another consequence of the digital revolution as well as the destabilized film climate that has independent distributors frantically searching for ways to attract new audiences is that moviemakers can like Mr. Swanberg learn on the job. The good news is that he is learning with each movie particularly his camerawork which no longer dribbles as aimlessly as it once did. But you can see for yourself: the movie which has its premiere at the South by Southwest film festival on Saturday is available on demand on most cable systems." directed and edited by Joe Swanberg; director of photography Mr. Swanberg; music by Justin Rice and Jo Schornikow; production designer Jade Healy; produced by Noah Baumbach Anish Savjani and Mr. Swanberg; released by IFC Films. Running time: 1 hour 12 minutes. This film is not rated." all you need is a (relatively) cheap camera and some software to call yourself a filmmaker. You don’t even need an actual film print just a disc you can feed into that ravenous maw called the independent film world where upstart festival programmers microdistributors critics and bloggers are clamoring for directors they can discover brand and champion as their very own. Hence Joe Swanberg." unless the people making those films are John Cassavetes Gena Rowlands and their glorious like. In “Alexander the Last” the theater rehearsals  despite the welcome presence of Josh Hamilton as the playwright and Jane Adams as the play’s director  come across as a self-flattering contrivance. In some respects the theater stage is just another platform for the kind of narcissistic display that is central in Mr. Swanberg’s movies. Notably as in his 2007 feature “Hannah Takes the Stairs ” the leads in “Alexander” also receive screenwriting credit which underscores the social-networking aspect of his approach to the work." he finally has a real actress to look at and undress the charming vibrantly alive Jess Weixler who plays Alex a rather less appealing actress struggling with the divide between life and art. As important “Alexander” comes with an imprimatur of legitimacy because the filmmaker Noah Baumbach (“Margot at the Wedding”) has signed on as a producer. It’s hard to imagine Mr. Baumbach putting his name to anything without some creative input." 
6537
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/13/movies/13carm.html
separately and together over 50 years. An informed affectionate commentary on their work is provided by Jennifer Dunning a  former  dance critic for The New York Times whose biography “Geoffrey Holder:  A Life in Theater Dance and Art” was published in 2001." ” a dance biography of the Haitian artist and voodoo priest Hector Hyppolite that he calls his answer to “Giselle” and “Swan Lake ” reveal work that was even bolder." Mr. Holder’s wife and creative partner for more than 50 years; now in her 70s she is still a beauty." “Portrait of Billie ” an angular modern dance tribute to Billie Holiday choreographed by John Butler. Ms. de Lavallade we learn was the best friend and dancing partner of Alvin Ailey who was brokenhearted when she married Mr. Holder although their relationship was platonic." directed by Linda Atkinson and Nick Doob follows Mr. Holder he radiates the energy of a sun king. By his side is Ms. de Lavallade the New Orleans-born dancer and choreographer who grew up in Los Angeles and met him when they appeared together in “House of Flowers”; they married in 1955." ” Geoffrey Holder thunders in the documentary “Carmen & Geoffrey.”  “If I’m not wanted in a place there’s something wrong with the place not with me.” And when this  6-foot-6-inch  choreographer and painter with a big toothy grin and the oratorical style of a Caribbean James Earl Jones thunders the earth moves." who recalls that from early childhood he knew he wanted to dance and to paint. He was 7 when he made his performing debut with the Holder Dance Company a troupe founded by his older brother Boscoe with whom he had a loving but competitive relationship. By the time he was discovered by Agnes de Mille in 1952 Geoffrey Holder was already an accomplished painter and the canvases shown in the movie suggest the sensibility of an extroverted Paul Gauguin steeped in Caribbean folklore." where he reflects on the American expatriate performer Josephine Baker. She was a kindred spirit who was lionized in Europe but not in America where she tried to walk through doors only to have them slammed in her face because she was black." Mr. Doob; edited by Mr. Doob; released by First Run Features. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6538
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/13/movies/13sona.html
Mr. Kurosawa and Sachiko Tanaka; director of photography Akiko Ashizawa; edited by Koichi Takahashi; music by Kazumasa Hashimoto; production designers Tomoyuki Maruo and Tomoe Matsumoto; produced by Yukie Kito and Wouter Barendrecht; released by Regent Releasing. In Japanese with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 59 minutes." two off-screen deaths and one bloody hit-and-run." Kyoko Koizumi (Megumi Sasaki) Yu Koyanagi (Takashi Sasaki) Kai Inowaki (Kenji Sasaki) Haruka Igawa (Kaneko) Kanji Tsuda (Kurosu) Koji Yakusho (Thief)." his family’s facade crumbles. The oldest son Takashi (Yu Koyanagi) seeks to enlist in the American military which to support its expanding war in the Middle East has begun to accept foreign recruits. (However satiric Mr. Kurosawa’s intent this idea didn’t sound all that far-fetched when I first saw the movie last September.) The youngest son Kenji (Kai Inowaki) meanwhile begins using  his lunch money to pay for piano lessons given by a melancholic beauty Kaneko (Haruka Igawa). Lying on the sofa one night Megumi poignantly asks Ryuhei to pull her up but he’s already left the room. Raising her arms she entreats “Somebody please lift  me up ” but  we’re the only ones listening." which soon after the opening credits cuts to  a Tokyo office where  corporate drones  are  briskly marching through the  corridors. Minutes later Ryuhei (Teruyuki Kagawa) an administrative middle manager has packed his belongings in a paper shopping bag and headed out having been rendered redundant. (One Chinese employee a drone says can do the work of two Japanese staffers.) Instead of telling his wife Megumi (Kyoko Koizumi) however Ryuhei continues to leave the house every morning wearing a suit and tie and carrying his briefcase props in an elaborate increasingly desperate pantomime that takes him from standing in the unemployment lines to  scrubbing public toilets on his hands and knees." the family members here don’t look much different from the characters who populate Mr. Kurosawa’s other movies some of whom are inexplicably driven to kill. Inexplicably or perhaps just unexplained:    Unlike most genre directors in Hollywood and other commercial provenances Mr. Kurosawa spends little time illuminating the mysteries of life death and murder the great whys that preoccupy filmmakers and invariably reduce being to behaviorism or DNA. It isn’t that interpretation has no place  in his work. It’s entirely possible for instance to see the multitudes of drifting jellyfish in his 2003 movie “Bright Future” as a symbol for Japanese youth gripped by anomie. Yet while that interpretation has its satisfactions it doesn’t really explain why one character massacres an entire family." known for his unnerving horror films and eerie thrillers the wildly prolific Japanese director Kiyoshi Kurosawa tends to ply his trade with spooky silences a lived-in feel for everyday droning life and a sense of social unease. Though his latest to hit the American big screen “Tokyo Sonata ” looks like a family melodrama — if a distinctly eccentric variant on the typical domestic affair — there is more than a touch of horror to its story of a salaryman whose downsizing   sets off   a series of cataclysmic events." “Tokyo Sonata” takes on increasingly uncanny and timely resonance for an American audience. Mr. Kurosawa’s  social critiques rarely reverberate as loudly as this one: Ryuhei and Megumi even argue about his patriarchal authority a fight that begins on a note of pathos but soon turns scarily violent: Having been victimized by his employer and by extension the country that creates the conditions for these harsh economic realities the paterfamilias becomes a victimizer. But this being a Kiyoshi Kurosawa movie nothing else happens the way you expect particularly given the lessons you glean   from other movies including the similarly themed more despairing 2001 French film “Time Out.”" Megumi ends up on a wild ride with a near-crazed would-be thief played by the great Koji Yakusho the star of a handful of Mr. Kurosawa’s best films including “Cure.” (Non-Japanese audiences might best remember him from the wistful romance “Shall We Dance?”) By the time she heads off the family has scattered like leaves blown down such divergent paths that there are moments when it feels as if each were inhabiting an entirely different movie. Yet as the family disperses Mr. Kurosawa ceaselessly brings them together through the editing. Long before the movie’s unexpectedly moving finale which pivots on an ethereal rendition of Debussy’s “Clair de Lune ” he keeps the discordant layers  of his composition in harmonious play." and in spite of its deep well of melancholia “Tokyo Sonata” ends on a strangely almost insistently optimistic note. Much of that optimism emanates from the youngest son whose desire to play the piano becomes a form of generational resistance against  his father who without explanation insists he do no such thing. Domination like family life has become a hollow ritual here. (“I’m home ” everyone says on returning to the house as the mother answers “Welcome home.”) An economic crisis shakes the family up — it brings the father to his knees lifts the mother almost destroys one son and liberates the other — but it’s art useless art that unites  them." 
6539
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/13/movies/13left.html
stabbed shot mangled and fed to labor-saving devices." “The Hills Have Eyes ” into horror-movie gold. The polishing of the Craven oeuvre — and the punishing of innocent families — continues with “The Last House on the Left ” a toned-down tarted-up remake of that auteur’s infamously brutal 1972 debut film." Mr. Iliadis alternates visceral violence — a knife slowly entering a girl’s quivering stomach a garbage disposal chewing relentlessly on a man’s hand — with interludes of dreamy anxiety. And though I have never actually heard a skull exploding in a microwave I suspect the movie’s sound designers deserve some kind of an award: thanks to them the damage one can inflict with small appliances and a giant grudge is all too clear." this stylish renovation by Dennis Iliadis remains mostly true to the original story of a bereaved couple (Tony Goldwyn and Monica Potter) whose teenage daughter (Sara Paxton) is attacked by a clan of on-the-lam sociopaths. Replacing the earlier movie’s more depraved sequences with sustained tension and truly unnerving editing the director proves adept at managing mayhem in cramped spaces: a six-person struggle in a barreling S.U.V. is a small miracle of controlled chaos." Monica Potter (Emma Collingwood) Sara Paxton (Mari Collingwood) Garret Dillahunt (Krug) Spencer Treat Clark (Justin) Martha MacIsaac (Paige) Aaron Paul (Francis) and Riki Lindhome (Sadie)." based on the film by Wes Craven; director of photography Sharone Meir; edited by Peter McNulty; music by John Murphy; production designer Johnny Breedt; produced by Mr. Craven Sean Cunningham and Marianne Maddalena; released by Rogue Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes." 
6540
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/13/movies/13seve.html
written edited and produced by Tony Stone; directors of photography Nathan Corbin and Damien Paris; music by Dimmu Borgir Popol Vuh Burzum Brian Eno Morbid Angel Old Man’s Child Queens of the Stone Age and Judas Priest; released by Heathen Films and Magnet Releasing. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. In Old Norse and Abenaki.  Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes. This film is not rated." part home-movie extravaganza — is the real expedition by Thorfinn Karlsefni an Icelander who planned to settle in the New World. Karlsefni hoped to inhabit an area on the northeast coast of Newfoundland that Leif Ericson  had set eyes on seven years earlier and named Vinland. (The movie was shot in Newfoundland and on land in rural Vermont owned by Mr. Stone’s family.) The settlement didn’t last because the Vikings had a nasty habit of slaying native peoples whom they called skraelings. This penchant for killing at first sight the historian Jared Diamond has dryly noted “was not a promising start to establishing friendships.”" even as everything does. The two Vikings speaking minimal sometimes amusingly translated and idiomatic dialogue in Old Norse (“We’re toast if we stay here”) construct a shelter build a fire trudge through the woods occasionally bicker and trudge some more. Mr. Stone who studied with the independent filmmakers Peggy Ahwesh and Adolfas Mekas at Bard College clearly has no use here for the ups and downs of conventional narrative. Instead he pays scrupulous almost loving attention to the details of survival (the Vikings chop a lot of wood) and to how being immersed in this strange world changes the men physically existentially and spiritually how it gets under their nails rubs into their skin and finally settles into their souls." Orn (Mr. Stone the blond) and Volnard (Fiore Tedesco the brunet) leaving a beach littered with the bodies of men pierced with arrows. Determined to find others of their kind they set off across breathtaking vistas and head into the past (via flashback) their dreams and encounters with man and beast. Mr. Stone working with two cinematographers and shooting in digital makes the most of the natural terrain capturing its rough beauty in long shots and close-ups that convey the travelers’ evolving intimacy with their surroundings. He skillfully conveys this same change through the montage and framing as his initially intentionally choppy cuts and Cubistic imagery give way to more unhurried edits and classic tableaus." Tony Stone (Orn) David Perry (Monk 1) Gaby Hoffmann (Orn’s Wife) Noelle Bailey (Abenaki Woman) James Fuentes (Abenaki Man) Clare Amory (Volnard’s Sister) Nathan Corbin (Viking Thrall) and Sean Dooley (Monk 2)." rustling leaves singing birds and the occasional unsettling din of Norwegian black-metal music in “Severed Ways: The Norse Discovery of America ” which tracks two Vikings lost in the New World in 1007. Independent to the nth degree the movie is the mad creation of  a young American Tony Stone who not only wrote directed and edited  “Severed Ways ” but as one of the warriors also slaughters a chicken and defecates on screen. Standing in the forest at one point he even begins head-banging thrashing hair so luxurious that it’s a wonder that he isn’t scalped immediately." American independent cinema could use more young filmmakers who go off the story grid. Far too many having embraced the workshop maxim “write what you know” with grave literalness seem to believe (wrongly) that their first loves screwy families and adolescences merit their own movies. Yet in drawing heavily from their lives few end up being able to transcend the narrow confines of their  stories to push past the realm of the self. “It is a delicious thing to write ” Flaubert rejoiced “no longer to be oneself but to circulate in the whole creation one speaks of.” If nothing else Mr. Stone from his tangled hair to dirty feet has taken himself and his story into the beyond  —   way way beyond." at least suggests the movie’s loftier ambitions if not what always transpires on screen. Though there’s no doubt that Mr. Stone is as serious as a heart attack when it comes to creating an air of authenticity — hence the sloppily butchered chickens and authorial defecation — he never settles on a coherent tone for the movie. The idioms excrement and heavy-metal flourishes certainly goose up the gritty realism but they also undermine the movie’s moments of grandeur. (Given the Nazi fascination with Norse myths the decision to use music by Burzum a favorite of white supremacists is unfortunate at best.) In one scene Mr. Stone manages to invoke Werner Herzog; in the next  his characters are running around like costumed geeks at a comic-book convention." 
6541
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/13/movies/13cake.html
strong performance avoids sentimentality to such a degree that her character isn’t even particularly likable. But as she schemes to get what she wants come hell or high water you cheer her on." Pete Masterson; edited by Joe Landauer and Colleen Sharp; music by Duncan Sheik; production designer David Stein; produced by Jesse Scolaro Allen Bain Darren Goldberg Elisa Pugliese and Ms. Masterson; released by 57th and Irving Productions and the 7th Floor. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." who plays Beagle’s older brother Guy —  “The Cake Eaters” is a dual portrait of the Kaminskis and the Kimbroughs two loosely connected small-town clans one of which (the Kaminskis) is better off than the other. The Kimbrough patriarch Easy (Bruce Dern) is a butcher still grieving over his wife’s recent death from cancer. During her illness Beagle took over as her primary caretaker when Easy could no longer handle the responsibility." Aaron Stanford (Beagle Kimbrough) Bruce Dern (Easy Kimbrough) Elizabeth Ashley (Marg Kaminski) Jayce Bartok (Guy Kimbrough) Miriam Shor (Stephanie) Talia Balsam (Violet) Jesse L. Martin (Judd) and Melissa Leo (Ceci Kimbrough)." overcrowded ensemble piece set in rural upstate New York into something a little deeper and truer than the mawkish disease-of-the-week movie it threatens to become." the boy Georgia chooses to initiate her into the mysteries of sex is a shy reluctant youth who works in her high school cafeteria and paints in his spare time. When he comes courting it is Georgia who seizes the initiative and pounces but their first tryst is interrupted by the snobbish ever-watchful Violet." Friedreich’s ataxia is a progressive degenerative disease of the nervous system.  It impairs the speech and coordination of Georgia Kaminski (Kristen Stewart) a willful teenager determined to experience sex before she dies." a failed indie rocker unexpectedly arrives home after scuffling in New York for several years Beagle assails him for having been absent during  their mother’s illness. Guy a barely sketched character immediately tries to rekindle a relationship with Stephanie (Miriam Shor) the girl he left behind to pursue rock ’n’ roll glory. Now married and with a family Stephanie is drawn to him despite her still-simmering rage over his disappearance." a woman of means has had a long-term affair with Easy. Watching Mr. Dern and Ms. Ashley together offers the fascination of studying two high-strung thoroughbreds reacting to one another’s proximity with snorts and flashing eyes; there could be a stampede at any moment." “The Cake Eaters” is good at developing the subplots on which it concentrates: the uneasy relationships among the Kimbrough men and Georgia and Beagle’s evolving connection. The movie’s broader psychological landscape however can leave you scratching your head. It is  like watching a movie on television in a format that doesn’t fit the screen." Violet (Talia Balsam) a devotee of New Age quackery who (weirdly) takes nude art photos of her daughter. Georgia’s parents seem to have been largely edited out of the movie presumably for reasons of  running time." 
6542
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/13/movies/13witc.html
they were O.K. but in those days Disney live-action juvenile pictures had less competition and were thus less compelled to be loud and dazzling. They were in fact kind of strange and spooky. This one which stars Dwayne Johnson as Jack Bruno a Las Vegas taxi driver who becomes the unwitting protector of two towheaded aliens is modest and diverting rough and bland with some good (if not quite Bette Davis caliber) actors and so-so special effects." though his range improves with every role and his natural lapidary charisma takes him a long way. He is best when he expresses an agitated annoyance amusingly at odds with his solid muscular presence. He doesn’t really have much to do in “Race to Witch Mountain” (which was directed with reasonable competence by Andy Fickman) — throw some punches react with incredulity and well race to Witch Mountain — but it’s not painful to watch him do it." apparently because the movie needed a few more black S.U.V.’s driven by guys with shaved heads. It benefits more from the half-clever sort of obvious conceit of staging a big action set piece in the middle of a science fiction convention full of costumed fans and geeks." based on the screen story by Mr. Lopez and the book by Alexander Key; director of photography Greg Gardiner; edited by David Rennie; music by Trevor Rabin; production designer David J. Bomba; produced by Andrew Gunn; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." what more can I add? And also what else did she expect? When I was around her age there was “Escape to Witch Mountain ” which starred Donald Pleasance Eddie Albert and Ray Milland; it was based on a popular kiddie-sci-fi novel by Alexander Key and was followed a few years later  by “Return From Witch Mountain ” with of all people Bette Davis and Christopher Lee." who recently turned 10 to see “Race to Witch Mountain.” Yes this is one of those Dad-goes-to-the-movies reviews but surely you didn’t think I was going to see it alone. When the movie was over as my own impressions buzzed distractingly around in my head I asked her what she thought. “It was O.K. ” she said. “It was pretty noisy though.”" an assassin with a mask and plated armor." AnnaSophia Robb (Sara) Alexander Ludwig (Seth) Carla Gugino (Dr. Alex Friedman) Ciaran Hinds (Burke) Tom Everett Scott (Matheson) Christopher Marquette (Pope) Cheech Marin (Eddie) and Garry Marshall (Dr. Donald Harlan)." or Ciaran Hinds scowl and bark as a government heavy intent on hunting down the cute little extraterrestrials. They are Seth (Alexander Ludwig) and Sara (AnnaSophia Robb) and like many others of their kind their English is impeccable though they are unable to use contractions or slang or to refer to people by first names alone." 
6543
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/13/movies/13wait.html
Boston and Chicago." Jade Yourell (Maggie) Hugh O’Conor (Twickers) Guido De Craene (Kluge) Jenne Decleir (Dinky) and Frank Kelly (Thaddius)." though at a mere 83 minutes the film won’t make you wait long for the sentimental denouement." Mike is forced down in a patch of rural Ireland populated by crotchety farmers beautiful women wartime rivals and other colorful clichés. Stilted screwball shenanigans ensue as Mike negotiates village life and tries to win his bet." at least on paper. At a Chicago nightclub on New Year’s Eve Mike (Andrew Keegan) a tipsy American fighter pilot becomes wrapped up with Al Capone in an ill-conceived wager that he can shoot down five enemy aircraft." if not so much to listen to or think about. On a modest budget it makes the most of its setting a picturesque Irish village and its period World War II. That it was written by Chuck Conaway and directed by Roger Tucker seems beside the point. The real artists here are the cinematographer Marc Felperlaan who burnishes the picture with a rich warm glow; the production designers Crispin Sallis and Alan Farquharson who fashion a charming lovingly realized look; and the various set dressers and costume designers who contribute to the whimsical gently heightened reality of the story." Marc Felperlaan; edited by Les Healey; music by Alfred Van Acker; production designers Crispin Sallis and Alan Farquharson; produced by Paul Breuls and Catherine Vandeleene; released by Cinema Libre Studio. In English. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6544
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/13/movies/13suns.html
gratingly improbable new enterprise which is cleaning up crime scenes. This job allows the film to dabble in cheap grisly sight gags and also in gratuitous throat-lumping. It’s the human comedy! It’s the human tragedy! It’s love and family and sisterhood and second chances and picking yourself up and dusting yourself off and making lemonade out of lemons. It’s a kindly one-armed cleaning-supply salesman with wry wisdom quiet patience a scraggly ponytail and an endearing hobby. He builds models." and to this end the filmmakers supply a dead mother whose suicide continues to haunt Rose and Norah. Except when it doesn’t: Rose is perfectly happy to make a flippant joke about suicide in one scene only to howl in undimmed rage and grief a short while later." though “Sunshine Cleaning” is none of those things apart from the cleaning-supply salesman played by Clifton Collins Jr. He’s real which is to say he’s as phony as everything else in the movie. All in all it’s a mess and much as Ms. Blunt pouts Ms. Adams twinkles and Mr. Arkin growls there’s nothing they can do to clean it up." characters and plot seem awfully familiar (and in a few cases familiarly awful). The deeper problem is an overall confusion of tone mood and genre a breathless incoherence that comes from the effort to jam too many disparate elements together. In one scene you think you’re in a gritty little regional-realist drama which gives way to a quirky comedy about adorable eccentrics and then swerves abruptly through psychological melodrama on its way to a cheery tidy ending." Emily Blunt (Norah Lorkowski) Alan Arkin (Joe Lorkowski) Jason Spevack (Oscar Lorkowski) Steve Zahn (Mac) Mary Lynn Rajskub (Lynn) and Clifton Collins Jr. (Winston)." from one of these stuck-together moments to the next “Sunshine Cleaning” sometimes seems better than it is that is largely because Ms. Jeffs (“Rain ” “Sylvia”) has a good touch with actors and a very good cast. Amy Adams and Emily Blunt playing sisters who go into business together attack their roles with vivacity and dedication even if the roles themselves don’t entirely make sense." John Toon; edited by Heather Persons; production designer Joseph T. Garrity; produced by Glenn Williamson Jeb Brody Marc Turtletaub and Peter Saraf; released by Overture Films. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." whose recitations of self-help mantras as she looks in the mirror make her a target for the kind of condescension that can play as satire or pity is by far the more stable of the two sisters. The other Norah (Ms. Blunt) is the cool wayward one who has tattoos on her wrist bad sex with a guy at a party and a fondness for telling Oscar scary bedtime stories when she goes over to Rose’s to baby-sit. She also does a bit of stalking which gives the film a chance to use the wonderful Mary Lynn Rajskub rather unimaginatively as yet another faux-provincial American oddball." don’t tell me it’s on the tip of my tongue. It takes place in Albuquerque. There’s a beat-up old van a lot of family dysfunction a cute kid a get-rich-quick scheme that doesn’t quite work out as planned. Alan Arkin is the grandpa. The title? Something about “Sunshine.”" not that one. “Little Miss Sunshine” came out in 2006. Why on earth would I be reviewing it now? I’m wondering that myself. A better title for the movie I am supposed to review — for the record it’s “Sunshine Cleaning ” directed by Christine Jeffs from a script by Megan Holley — would be “Sundance Recycling ” since the picture is less a free-standing independent film than a scrap-metal robot built after a shopping spree at the Park City Indie Parts and Salvage Warehouse." swearing drug use and scenes depicting the bloody aftermath of violent acts." with her tremulous smile and her usual beguiling mixture of fragility and pluck is Rose a single mother whose life is a daily struggle with disappointment and humiliation. Though she dreams of getting her real-estate license — perhaps a more seductive dream when the movie was made than it is now — she scratches out a living cleaning houses and hotel rooms. She’s having an affair with Mac (Steve Zahn) her high school boyfriend — he was a football star she was a cheerleader — who married someone else and works as a police detective. Her son Oscar (Jason Spevack) is always getting in trouble at school and her dad (Mr. Arkin naturally) is an erratic and sometimes troublesome though generally well-intentioned old coot." 
6545
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/13/movies/13marc.html
a spastic colon and women’s breasts." directed and star playing the odd-couple best friends Eugene (Mr. Cregger) who lectures for Abstinence Now! (before the whole coma thing) and Tucker (Mr. Moore) a hound dog who runs the gamut of emotions from goofy to goofier." Ryan Homchick and Thomas Mimms; director of photography Anthony B. Richmond; edited by Tim Mirkovich; music by Jeff Cardoni; production designer Cabot McMullen; produced by Tom Jacobson Steven J. Wolfe Tobie Haggerty and Vincent Cirrincione; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures and Fox Atomic. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes." boy-won’t sleep-with-girl boy-falls-into-coma-and-wakes-years-later-to-find-girl-is-Playboy-centerfold comedy is the brainchild of Zach Cregger and Trevor Moore of the television sketch show “The Whitest Kids U’Know.”" predictable excrement a smutty rapper an epileptic girl and of course beautiful lesbians making out. Mostly it all feels tame right down to the film’s softhearted message of true love. Mr. Moore lacks the acting chops to turn Tucker into the force of anarchic mayhem that the movie needs him to be. Instead he’s just annoying. (Mr. Cregger fares better in the straight-man role.)" Trevor Moore (Tucker Cleigh) Craig Robinson (Rap Star) Raquel Alessi (Cindi Whitehall) Molly Stanton (Candace) Cedric Yarbrough (Doctor) and Hugh M. Hefner (as Himself)." Tucker springs him from the hospital for a road trip. Destination: the Playboy Mansion. (Hugh Hefner plays himself dispensing this nugget of advice to Tucker: You don’t need to find a bunny; find the bunny that’s in every girl.) And the ending neatly ties up all the plotlines." 
6546
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06dawn.html
the two  fall into bed. They keep falling. Carole it emerges is married to an actor (an almost phantom presence played by Eric Rulliat) who is trying to make it in Hollywood. Bored perhaps lonely and self-absorbed she doesn’t initially seem as taken with François as he is with her though she might be just accustomed to adoration. Ms. Smet whose physically graceless at times almost impassive performance works better earlier in the story when her character seems detached from both François and the passion he clearly feels is short on technique and natural appeal. She’s an unfortunate  object of desire in more ways than the filmmaker may have intended." Marc Cholodenko and Arlette Langmann; director of photography William Lubtchansky; edited by Yann Dedet; music by Jean-Claude Vannier; produced by Edouard Weil and Conchita Airoldi; released by IFC Films. At the BAMcinématek BAM Rose Cinemas 30 Lafayette Avenue at Ashland Place Fort Greene. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes. This film is not rated." Laura Smet (Carole) Clémentine Poidatz (Eve) Emmanuel Broche (Jean-Jacques) Olivier Massart (Eve’s Father) and Eric Rulliat (Carole’s husband)." whose free-flowing tears and beauty were designed for tragedy never seems to have to work hard to seduce an audience and the easiness of his charm can make him appear overly callow. But because he wears it lightly that charm can also seem like a flimsy defense which in turn  invests him with an acute air of vulnerability. François succumbs easily to Carole who loses him as her grip tightens. Things fall apart. And as Carole ends up terminally alone François even with  Eve and a baby ready to bring him down to earth quickly drifts into the ether.  One day looking at his own mirrored image he instead sees Carole who urges him to join her. In Jean Cocteau’s “Orpheus ” perhaps an  inspiration for  this film Orpheus steps through a mirror that leads to the underworld where his beloved Eurydice waits for him. The mirror is a border between two countries a frontier between life and death love and its absence.  Whether Carole’s ghost is real or  a risible narrative contrivance  is immaterial next to Philippe Garrel’s commitment to love as an absolute and to his own artistic vision. Time and again he inserts two lovers inside his meticulous compositions where   they reveal  passions that by virtue of their excesses remind us of how drained of life the modern world truly is. He transforms a private reverie into a public sacrament invokes the eternal risks absurdity invites derision seduces shocks transcends." it centers on a young photographer François (Louis Garrel the filmmaker’s son) and the two women with whom he finds and loses love. After his affair ends with Carole (Laura Smet) a famous actress given to flare-ups and meltdowns he immerses himself in a new life with Eve (Clémentine Poidatz) who promises him a child and perhaps a chance at real happiness." Mr. Garrel (born in 1948) has only lately begun to receive the attention he deserves in this country. Although many of his films remain out of easy reach for American viewers (a handful are available on DVD) the recent release of “Regular Lovers ” his  heartbreaking 2005 look back at May 1968 and  “I Don’t Hear the Guitar Anymore ” a crushing 1991 drama about his doomed affair with the singer Nico have helped fill in the gaps. “Frontier of Dawn” doesn’t reach the eloquent heights of either of those earlier titles but it’s a lovely work suffused with a deep melancholy that seems etched into each of its beautifully lighted images." including madness electroshock treatment a discussion about the cost of baby diapers and the sudden emergence of a ghost in a mirror all of which Mr. Garrel connects so loosely that they feel more like moments out of time than narrative fragments. His elliptical storytelling style probably explains some of the unhappy reactions the film earned after (and during) its first press screening at the Cannes Film Festival last May though the ghost  didn’t help. This isn’t new: Michelangelo Antonioni’s “L’Avventura” was jeered at Cannes  in 1960. Serious movies that insist on their own seriousness almost always face a difficult reception whether they are intellectual puzzles or like “Frontier of Dawn ” romantic cries from the heart." its unvarnished unapologetic blatancy partly explains I think the difficulty some viewers have had with the film.  That and love.  It seems strange to say but even as cinemas of all national origins continue to find new and expressive ways to convey violence on screen many now seem at a loss  when it comes to love. Certainly that’s the case in America where passion is often tempered with laughs (as in innumerable buddy romances) or becomes an excuse for sublimation (as in those orgies of consumption known as chick flicks). But love is the drug in “Frontier of Dawn ” the thing  that pulls people together tears them apart and defines their relationship with other people and the world." 
6547
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06sere.html
“New York City Serenade” chronicles the sour dysfunctional friendship between Owen (Mr. Prinze) and Ray (Mr. Klein). Marginally employed in Manhattan they dream of cultural stardom and when Owen’s short film is accepted by a film festival they head off for an escape from the wreckage of their personal lives." aside from a few narrative improbabilities (fancy hotel rooms obtained without identification; nonexistent airport security) meant less to baffle the viewer than to shuffle him along to the next poorly written scene." Ryan Samul; music by Ed Harcourt; production designer Dara Wishingrad; produced by Rachel Peters and James Jones; released by Archer Entertainment. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes. This film is not rated." spineless bore who cheats on his fiancée (Jamie-Lynn Sigler) and Chris Klein as an obnoxious alcoholic lout the movie is a character study about two underachieving dullards scarcely worth contemplating." Chris Klein (Ray) and Jamie-Lynn Sigler (Lynn)." the festival atmosphere pushes their shortcomings to the breaking point. The moral of the story? Grow up. The point of the movie? Fathomless." 
6548
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06phoe.html
” and the balance between supportive teacher and irresponsible enabler tips toward the latter. (Ms. Clarkson whose character exudes an air of mysterious knowingness is as usual wonderful.)" Lynette Scavo is amplified to self-lacerating anguish in “Phoebe in Wonderland” as her empathy fails to soothe her daughter. As Phoebe Ms. Fanning completely refraining from melodrama or show business cuteness gives a touching subtle portrayal of a troubled child. When this smart pretty imaginative emotionally stricken little girl fearfully admits she is unable to control her self-destructive compulsions you feel for her." Bobby Bukowski; edited by Robert Hoffman; music by Christophe Beck; production designer Therese DePrez; produced by Lynette Howell and Ben Barnz; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." Hillary (Felicity Huffman) who is turning her  doctoral thesis on “Alice in Wonderland” into a book worries that Phoebe is resentful of  the time she spends on the book. But as Phoebe increasingly gets lost in daydreams in which the people in her life become figures out of “Alice in Wonderland ” her behavior signals deeper problems. She injures herself making a daredevil leap from a catwalk above the stage; in a fit of pique she spits at a fellow student." ” a tremblingly sensitive family drama that decomposes in  its last half-hour examines the difference between the growing pains of a gifted child and the possibility of more serious mental illness. When  9-year-old Phoebe Lichten (Elle Fanning) auditions to play Alice in a school production of “Alice in Wonderland ” childish superstition drives her to act out self-punishing rituals to earn the part. In one she repeatedly washes her hands until they are raw. Another involves executing painstakingly counted-out dance steps on the sidewalk without landing on a crack." as though the  money had run out and the project had been called off in the middle of a scene that makes no psychological or dramatic sense. It leaves you frustrated and annoyed." Tourette’s syndrome for one aspect of her behavior but it seems more like a symptom than a diagnosis. Here the movie collapses on itself." Peter (Bill Pullman);  her principal Mr. Davis (Campbell Scott);  and Dr. Miles (Peter Gerety) the ineffectual psychiatrist she visits —  are well-meaning clueless dolts. It is up to women to save the day." Patricia Clarkson (Miss Dodger) Elle Fanning (Phoebe Lichten) Bill Pullman (Peter Lichten) Campbell Scott (Principal Davis) Peter Gerety (Dr. Miles) and Ian Colletti (Jamie)." and suddenly they burst into an inane production number that suggests something out of a bad Disney musical; this is odd seeing as the play wasn’t conceived as a musical." who wins the role becomes the pet of the drama teacher Miss Dodger (Patricia Clarkson) a fierce defender of alienated artistically inclined children. When Jamie (Ian Colletti) the boy chosen to play the Queen of Hearts finds a homophobic epithet sprayed on his costume Miss Dodger sternly lectures the children on the honorable history of men playing women in Shakespeare’s time. Her speech rings as the personal screed of the filmmaker Daniel Barnz who makes his feature writing and directing debut with “Phoebe in Wonderland.”" 
6549
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06fado.html
though with a choreographed cavalcade as performers of different hues ages and sexes — some blowing whistles other banging drums — march and dance into the soundstage in a nod to the early Brazilian and African influences on fado. Largely thought to have emerged from several poor quarters in Lisbon in the early 19th century fado was a song of the demimonde. Its first legendary figure a 19th-century tavern singer Maria Severa was  known as much for her love affairs and black shawls as for her songs and is thought like so many other female martyrs from  art of that era to have died of (what else?) tuberculosis or suicide. Verdi would have loved her." the soul music of Portugal you need only listen to the legendary fadista Amália Rodrigues who tremulously immortalized singing whores weeping guitars ashes and fire pain and sin. “All this exists ” she sang. “All this is pain. All this is fado.”" notably by showcasing both musicians and dancers who look back at the past even as they move fado forward but this trajectory may be better appreciated by those familiar with 20th-century Portuguese history. The lack of both a voice-over and reams of text of the sort that often accompanies documentaries certainly makes it easier to concentrate on the performances but it also means that the uninitiated might miss fado’s  deep cultural and political importance. The  longtime Portuguese dictator António de Oliveira Salazar for instance who ruled from 1932 to 1968 is said to have controlled the country with the so-called three F’s: fado futebol and Fátima (a reference to the Roman Catholic shrine). He apparently wasn’t a fan of Ms. Rodrigues." contemporary fadistas (the word is used for men and women) are very much in touch not just with the genre as a musical tradition but also as a form of melodramatic self-expression. When a fadista like Mariza one of the most renowned modern interpreters of fado performs she stretches out her arms and moves her hips seductively beckoning with her body as well as with her voice. She’s a rather pallid figure when compared with Ms. Rodrigues —closer to Annie Lennox than to Édith Piaf — but her throaty vibrato suggests layers of feeling. Like some of the other younger performers in the film including a few rappers she has helped usher fado out of Portugal and its past and into the world." José Luis López-Linares and Eduardo Serra; edited by Julia Juaniz; production designer Carlos Saura; produced by Mr. Dias Luis Galvão Teles and Antonio Saura; released by New Yorker Films. At Lincoln Plaza Cinemas 1886 Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Streets. In Portuguese with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes. This film is not rated." who died in 1999 was known as the Queen of Fado but she has a number of  majestic heirs some of whom perform with tremendous force and feeling in “Fados ”  Carlos Saura’s big-screen film about the musical genre. Much as he did in his 1990s documentaries “Sevillanas” and “Flamenco ”  this  veteran Spanish director has in his latest created both a tribute to an art form and  a performance archive. Set entirely inside a cavernous soundstage subdivided by large panels some of which periodically do double time as projection screens the film has a pleasurably easy if  on occasion somewhat  slack rhythm that can feel at odds with the intense pulse and temperament of the actual fados." “Fados” is a celebration of human expressivity that with a stripped-down soundstage and some extraordinary bodies allows you to appreciate how emotion becomes art. And while I would have preferred a little less interpretive dancing there is no quarreling with a film that includes a recognizable world-music star like Caetano Veloso and the lesser-known Ricardo Ribeiro. Mr. Ribeiro a formidably sized young man with a stirring tenor appears late in the film to perform a kind of duel with the singer Pedro Moutinho while accompanied by four guitarists who pluck as fast as a hummingbird beats its wings.  Each man begins singing while seated only rising to stand  as the notes of the fado lift him higher." 
6550
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06Watc.html
Billy Crudup (Jon Osterman/Dr. Manhattan) Matthew Goode (Adrian Veidt/Ozymandias) Carla Gugino (Sally Jupiter/Silk Spectre) Jackie Earle Haley (Walter Kovacs/Rorschach) Jeffrey Dean Morgan (Edward Blake/the Comedian) and Patrick Wilson (Dan Dreiberg/Nite Owl II)." finally unpersuasive because it is rooted in a view of human behavior that is fundamentally immature self-pitying and sentimental. Perhaps there is some pleasure to be found in regressing into this belligerent adolescent state of mind. But maybe it’s better to grow up." also known as Edward Blake once tried to rape Silk Spectre (Ms. Gugino) whose daughter Laurie (Ms. Akerman) a second-generation superhero lives with Dr. Manhattan and drifts toward an affair with Nite Owl II (Patrick Wilson). Or rather with Dan Dreiberg Nite Owl’s nebbishy alter ego since an act of Congress has outlawed costumed vigilantism. The suave calculating Ozymandias (Matthew Goode) has managed to find wealth and power in retirement. But no law can deter Rorschach (Jackie Earle Haley) whose notebook entries serve as voice-over narration and whose clammy misanthropic worldview dominates the story." Mr. Snyder’s film freezes its frame of reference in the 1980s preserving the dank downcast revanchist spirit of the original and adding a few period-specific grace notes of its own including time-capsule references to Lee Iacocca and “The McLaughlin Group.” There is also a nod of homage in the direction of “Apocalypse Now” and a soundtrack heavy with the baby-boomer anthems that still echoed in the ears of Reagan-era adolescents." both gamely giving solid performances — who sensibly accessorize their shoulder-padded spandex leotards with garter belts and high-heeled boots. And the dense involution of the narrative might have seemed exhilarating rather than exhausting." though as Mr. Snyder and the screenwriters David Hayter and Alex Tse demonstrate remarkable at times almost demented fidelity to the original. Mr. Moore — whose work has been poorly served by movies like “V for Vendetta ” “From Hell” and “The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen” — has declared that “Watchmen” is impossible to film. Perhaps he meant to say redundant since there are times that the filmmakers seem to have used his book less as an inspiration than as a storyboard. The inevitable omission of some stuff — a pirate-themed comic-within-the-comic; a mysterious gathering of artists and writers; a giant squid — may rankle die-hard cultists but the tone of world-weary self-justifying rage has been faithfully preserved which may be a problem for everyone else." at his insistence does not appear leaving Mr. Gibbons listed somewhat absurdly as a solitary “co-creator” of the graphic novel — seems to acknowledge the project’s anachronistic nostalgic orientation. As Bob Dylan sings “The Times They Are A-Changin’ ” familiar images from the past are altered in ways both subtle and outrageous. Tableaus evoking Andy Warhol the Zapruder film Studio 54 and Weegee-style crime scenes commingle with snapshots from the lives of several generations of costumed crusaders. There is a witty pop sensibility evident in these pictures that gets the movie off to a promising start even though such breeziness works to undermine the ambient gloom of the source material." but the violence is another matter. The infliction of pain is rendered in intimate and precise aural and visual detail from the noise of cracking bones and the gushers of blood and saliva to the splattery deconstruction of entire bodies. But brutality is not merely part of Mr. Snyder’s repertory of effects; it is more like a cause a principle an ideology. And his commitment to violence brings into relief the shallow nihilism that has always lurked beneath the intellectual pretensions of “Watchmen.” The only action that makes sense in this world — the only sure basis for ethics or politics the only expression of love or loyalty or conviction — is killing. And the dramatic conflict revealed at long last in the film’s climactic arguments is between a wholesale idealistic approach to mass death and one that is more cynical and individualistic." a blue bald naked dude with blank eyes and the voice of Billy Crudup. Dr. Manhattan’s existence is busy and fairly melancholy but I do envy him his ability to perceive every moment of past and future time as a part of a continuous present." a naked blue man and some superhero sex." by Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons was published by DC in 1986 and ’87 first serially and then in a single volume and it quickly gained a following in discriminating geek circles. The book was very much a product of its moment both in the history of comics — which were scouting new horizons of complexity and thematic ambition — and in the wider world that “Watchmen” mirrored." the ideal viewer — or reviewer as the case may be — of the “Watchmen” movie would probably be a mid-’80s college sophomore with a smattering of Nietzsche an extensive record collection and a comic-book nerd for a roommate. The film’s carefully preserved themes of apocalypse and decay might have proved powerfully unsettling to that anxious undergraduate sitting in his dorm room listening to “99 Luftballons” and waiting for the world to end or the Berlin Wall to come down." glass-shattering murder of the Comedian (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) a thuggish soldier of fortune who once helped Dr. Manhattan subdue the Vietcong. This killing sets in motion a series of flashbacks digressions and long expository conversations that take us from the grunge of New York City to Antarctica by way of Mars and that reveal a web of complicated relationships among more than a half-dozen major characters." defined by victory in Vietnam an endless Nixon presidency nuclear brinkmanship and pervasive social rot. At the same time they offered a self-conscious critique of the national preoccupation with muscled masked crime-fighters. Their heroes — the paranoid Rorschach the shy Nite Owl II the coldly post-human Dr. Manhattan and various other colleagues and rivals — were violent ambivalent treacherous and vain even though they also seemed to be uniquely capable of saving the world from ultimate catastrophe." based on the graphic novel illustrated by Dave Gibbons; director of photography Larry Fong; edited by William Hoy; music by Tyler Bates; production designer Alex McDowell; visual effects supervisor John DesJardin; produced by Lawrence Gordon Lloyd Levin and Deborah Snyder; released by Warner Brothers Pictures and Paramount Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 40 minutes." the 2 hours 40 minutes of Zack Snyder’s grim and grisly excursion into comic-book mythology might not have felt quite so interminable. (“It will never end ” says Dr. Manhattan. “Nothing ever ends.” No indeed.) Also an enhanced temporal perspective would make it possible to watch “Watchmen” not in 2009 but back in 1985 when the story takes place and when the movie might have made at least a little more sense." 21st-century moviegoer he most likely grew into whose old copy of “Watchmen” lies in a box somewhere alongside a dog-eared Penguin Classics edition of “Thus Spake Zarathustra” — would necessarily say that Mr. Snyder’s “Watchmen” is a good movie. I wouldn’t though it is certainly better than the same director’s “300.” But it’s possible to imagine that our imaginary student would at least have found some food for thought in Mr. Snyder’s grandiose meticulously art-directed vision of blood cruelty and metaphysical dread. As it is the film is more curiosity than provocation an artifact of a faded world brought to zombie half-life by the cinematic technology of the present." “Watchmen” features this year’s hands-down winner of the bad movie sex award superhero division: a moment of bliss that takes place on board Nite Owl’s nifty little airship accompanied by Leonard Cohen’s “Hallelujah.” (By the way can we please have a moratorium on the use of this song in movies? Yes I too have heard there was a secret chord that David played and blah blah blah but I don’t want to hear it again. Do you?)" 
6551
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06toky.html
memorialized in underground graffiti the movie is also a critique of Japan’s suppressed historical memory. Denial of the past it implies can keep those horrors buried for only so long before they explode in a volcanic rampage." I should add is no great shakes as a filmmaker. His idiotic contribution to the future of cinema which he tests out at a screening of his no-budget opus “The Garden of Degradation ” is to bring a smoke machine into the theater which produces watery eyes and coughing fits among the invited guests." ” the most warm-blooded of the three the relationship of Akira (Ryo Kase) an aspiring young filmmaker with delusions of grandeur and his insecure tag-along girlfriend Hiroko (Ayako Fujitani) is tested as they scour the grotesque low end of Tokyo’s real estate market in search of an affordable rental. One hole-in-the-wall they visit is bug infested; in another they recoil at the sight of a dead cat on the floor. A third is a tiny pod with a porthole." Léos Carax and   Bong Joon-Ho; produced by Masa Sawada and Michiko Yoshitake; released by Liberation Entertainment. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. In Japanese with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. This film is not rated." ” a compendium of three surreal shorts whose relationship with one another might best be defined by the exclamation point in the title." a so-called hikikomori or shut-in (Teruyuki Kagawa) who has lived indoors for 10 years with minimal human contact. His hermetic existence abruptly ends when the delivery of his daily pizza coincides with an earthquake and he connects long enough with the beautiful young woman who delivered it to fall in love with her. Roused from his isolation by passion he ventures outdoors to find her." Ryo Kase (Akira) Denis Lavant (Creature) Jean-François Balmer (Maître Voland) Teruyuki Kagawa (the Man) and Yu Aoi (Pizza Delivery Girl)." he becomes a full-fledged terrorist who creates mass panic as he casually tosses grenades over his shoulder while staggering along. Soon his lair is raided and he is dragged off in shackles and tried for murder." the South Korean director of “The Host.” Both in its parts and in the sum of them “Tokyo!” is playfully and sometimes disorientingly apocalyptic. Opposite in spirit to the sensuous humane “Paris Je T’Aime ” another recent directorial group portrait of a city “Tokyo!” conjures alienation and dehumanization" her shaky self-esteem crumbles in the cold cruel city. In a witty cinematographic coup she undergoes a Kafkaesque metamorphosis and finds a strangely happy resolution which Mr. Gondry engineers gracefully with minimal special effects." a subterranean half-human played with enthusiastic comic zeal by the director’s usual lead actor Denis Lavant. With a white marble eye and a curling red beard the green-suited “creature from the sewers ” as he is nicknamed by the media speaks a nonsensical patois that only his mysterious French lawyer can understand. After popping out of a manhole he begins wreaking havoc on the sidewalks of Tokyo grabbing fistfuls of money and flowers from pedestrians’ hands and stuffing them into his mouth as he lurches down the street." 
6552
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06thir.html
yet somehow only Manohar (R. Madhavan) a loving son and husband seems to notice." as if shot on long-expired film “13B” follows a something-is-amiss setup that employs some old-standby motifs (an ominous elevator a distrustful dog photographs in which the subject’s face shows up creepily distorted) and some fresher ones (milk inexplicably curdling walls impervious to hammered nails) with a drawn-out series of explanations dished out at a dizzying rate." but if nothing else “13B”  despite its near-total absence of subtlety bloated running time and yes even the inclusion of a couple of out-of-place musical sequences  does manage to change to a relatively new channel." the titular 13B they discover that a show titled “Sab Khairiyat” (“All’s Well”) is revealing in typical cliffhanger format that their own lives may be in danger." Neetu Chandra (Priya) and Poonam Dhillon (Sushma)." H. Laxminarayan; edited by Sreekar Prasad; produced by Rajesh Sawhney; released by Big Pictures. In Manhattan at the ImaginAsian Theater 239 East 59th Street. In Hindi and Tamil with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 26 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6553
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06sher.html
Craig Saavedra generates surprising warmth from the familiar tropes of the odd-couple road movie.  Shooting mostly in the verdant sweep of California’s wine country — and with a superb supporting cast — he allows Mr. Le Gros room to engage. Palmer may be an emotional infant but he can lick my face any time." Enrico Colantoni (D.J.) Michael Shulman (Sherman Black) Brooke Nevin (Addy) Donna Murphy (Evelyn Black) Thomas Ian Nicholas (Tom) and Lacey Chabert (Marcy Delang)." stranded in California after an impetuous decision goes awry needs a ride to an internship in Beverly Hills. Enter Palmer with a stolen MGB roadster a carpe diem mentality and a character arc as visible as his immaturity." “Sherman’s Way” just wants to run around in circles and lick your face. After a while though — and against your better judgment — you kind of fall in love with it." an elitist Yalie and a washed-up Olympian is particularly admirable. As Sherman a recent law school graduate and uptight mama’s boy Michael Shulman embodies the kind of preppy privilege that’s a liability almost anywhere but Manhattan. But it’s James Le Gros playing a disgruntled former ski champion named Palmer who finally pulls you in: his shaggy charm cushions both Sherman’s neuroses and the script’s manipulations." Joaquin Sedillo; edited by Christopher Gay; music by David Michael Frank; production designer Laurent Turlure; produced by Mr. Saavedra Michael Shulman and Mr. Nance; released by International Film Circuit. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6554
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06expl.html
recreational drug use and some health-care horror." it becomes evident that this is yet another of those multistranded narratives that have come into vogue again. In some  recent films of this type most of which come with a veneer of politics and invariably embrace humanism the characters are connected by a gun (“Babel”) ethnic and racial tensions (“Crash”) and immigration (“Crossing Over”). Yet what binds them isn’t just that they’re all hurting human beings joined by their common pain but that the filmmaker also wants you to know that they’re all hurting human beings and he feels their pain. Mr. Webber at least offers a solution as  evidenced by a man who spray-paints the word “revolt” in letters so large they fill the entire frame." “Explicit Ills ” an episodic movie about a number of Philadelphians living working and often struggling in the same neighborhood appears to move from life to life without particular reason. Its first-time writer and director Mark Webber doesn’t immediately reveal the story’s structure or his intentions: he simply places you among some dozen characters — children and young adults of different colors and with differing economic contexts — without introduction. A young boy buys a soda in one scene an older boy explains the benefits of a vegan diet in another; one man sells pot while another sells colonics." themes (financial distress self-medication existential isolation) emerge from their lives and seemingly casual moments begin to take larger shape much as the dots in a pointillist painting do as you step back from the canvas. Though some  of his visual choices can seem arbitrary (the  long shots tend to feel more like art-cinema tics than formally organic) Mr. Webber working with the talented cinematographer Patrice Lucien Cochet persuasively transforms a group of portraits into a group portrait." no matter how ostensibly profound their differences the characters in all these movies end up hoisting the exact same banner for the filmmaker. In the case of “Explicit Ills ” this banner-carrying becomes literalized when the  characters  take to the streets in the final scene during an organized demonstration a neighborhood of atomized individuals transformed into a coalition of the righteous and united on behalf of medical care housing and peace. It’s a beautiful message: surely there’s no arguing with “Hey hey ho ho poverty has got to go!” But there is much to argue with and much to regret about a film whose director thinks he needs to drop an anvil on our heads when art would suffice." Patrice Lucien Cochet; edited by Jay Rabinowitz; music by Khari Mateen; production designer Michael Grasley; produced by Mr. Webber Liz Destro and Sol Tryon; released by Peace Arch Entertainment. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes." Rosario Dawson (Babo’s Mom) Naomie Harris (Jill) Lou Taylor Pucci (Jacob) Frankie Shaw (Michelle) Tariq Trotter (Kaleef) and Francisco Burgos (Babo)." 
6555
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06ever.html
Mikael Persbrandt (Sigfrid Larsson) Jesper Christensen (Pedersen) Callin Ohrvall (Maja) Ghita Norby (Frk. Fagerdal) Amanda Ooms (Matilda) Emil Jensen (Englund) and Claire Wikholm (Karna)." as well as young Maja’s daughterly loyalty is reserved for Maria whose heroism emerges over time like a photographic image coaxed into clarity in the darkroom." this movie unspools at a leisurely episodic pace dwelling on the details of domestic life with a care that is both naturalistic and nostalgic. From the start a narrator’s voice establishes that this is a daughter’s reminiscence of her parents’ long often painful marriage and her wistful elegiac recollections extend to the film’s visual texture its brownish hues and grainy wintry sunlight." Sigfrid (Mikael Persbrandt) is far less supportive. A brawling hard-drinking womanizing brute — whose occasional flashes of decency bravery and charm hardly compensate for his selfishness — Sigge as he is known is threatened by any self-assertion on his wife’s part. Preoccupied with caring for her children (there are at least a half dozen by the time the movie is over including Maja the narrator) and with maintaining the family’s respectability in a strait-laced and judgmental society Maria at first seems like Sigge’s anchor and his foil. The film treats him even at his worst with compassion and Mr. Persbrandt makes him magnetic as well as monstrous and pathetic." “Everlasting Moments” is as full of character and incident as a fat realist novel. Sigge is caught up in the drama of public events from a violent longshoreman’s strike to the First World War an adventure that turns out to be more a matter of pomp and revelry than of real danger or glory. It is Maria who takes account of more subtle changes going on around the family including the arrival of cinema a development that fills Sigge with violent and inexplicable rage." but it is balanced by delicacy humor and a sense of innocence that flirts with mawkishness. Any excursion into a lost world of childhood whether it’s “Amarcord” or “The Secret Life of Bees ” risks sentimentalizing the past but Mr. Troell many of whose earlier films have also been historical dramas (most notably “The Emigrants” and “The New Land ” from the early ’70s) compensates with a sense of historical and psychological clarity. The result is an experience that even as it feels a bit familiar is nonetheless engrossing and satisfying." a Finnish immigrant to Sweden named Maria Larsson (played with furious dignity by Maria Heiskanen) won it in a raffle before her marriage and decides to sell it during a time of crisis. Mr. Pedersen (Jesper Christensen) a kindly Danish fellow who runs the local photography studio persuades Maria to keep the camera and encourages her in her vocation as a portraitist." based on a story by Agneta Ulfsater Troell; directors of photography Mr. Troell and Mischa Gavrjusjov; edited by Niels Pagh Andersen; music by Matti Bye; produced by Thomas Stenderup; released by IFC Films. In Swedish with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 11 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6556
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/06/movies/06bell.html
played with voluptuous sullenness by Léa Seydoux is a cousin of Matthias whose own love trouble provides a narrative diversion from  hers. She arrives at school midyear after the death of her mother and quickly becomes a universal crush object. Eventually she pairs up with Otto (Grégoire Leprince-Ringuet) but she also catches the eye of M. Nemours (Mr. Garrel) a teacher of Italian who barely looks older than his pupils and is if anything less mature than most of them." “Les Chansons d’Amour ” which was a full-fledged disarmingly naturalistic musical with many of the same actors most notably Louis Garrel. There scenarios of love and longing played themselves out among carefree 20-somethings in Paris. Here similar complications beset a group of anxious restless classmates whose world of gossip and hooking up is thrown into further turmoil by the arrival of a new girl named Junie." ” Madame de Lafayette’s  1678 novel of forbidden passions among the aristocracy long a staple of high school French classes has been adapted loosely but conscientiously into “La Belle Personne ” a film about present-day French high school students. The translation of classic works of literature into movies rooted in the idioms of modern adolescence is perhaps surprisingly a fairly common practice. Shakespeare begot “10 Things I Hate About You” (based on “The Taming of the Shrew”) and Baz Luhrmann’s “Romeo and Juliet ” for instance just as Jane Austen’s “Emma” inspired “Clueless.”" mood and theme than a fully integrated interpretation of Mme. de Lafayette’s novel. The comic swerves and dramatic twists feel at once dutiful and arbitrary and supposedly intense emotions are explored with the arch weary detachment of a school assignment. Apparently it’s not so easy to take “La Princesse de Clèves” out of the classroom." dashing and melancholy is an updated specimen of an old literary archetype the serial seducer tripped up by the force of his own irresponsible passion. When Junie arrives he is in the midst of two affairs one with a colleague the other with a student and his messy love life seems to trouble him more as a matter of logistics than of conscience or feeling." ” directed by Christophe Honoré (who wrote the script with Gilles  Taurand) combines an earnest respect for literature with a romantic pop sensibility though its mood is more fretful than playful. The soundtrack is full of brooding Nick Drake songs and at one point a character bursts —  or rather stumbles —  into song on screen." Léa Seydoux (Junie) Grégoire Leprince-Ringuet (Otto) Esteban Carvajal Alegria (Matthias) Simon Truxillo (Henri) Agathe Bonitzer (Marie) and Anaïs Demoustier (Catherine)." above all by the beautifully matched faces of the actors who portray them. Mr. Honoré a writer for Cahiers du Cinéma before he was a director taps into a familiar filmic iconography with almost scholarly rigor evoking the spirit of Jean-Luc Godard another Cahiers veteran. With his short tan raincoat and hollow-cheeked seriousness Mr. Garrel could be a taller incarnation of the twitchy young intellectuals played by Jean-Pierre Léaud in mid-’60s Godard movies just as Ms. Seydoux with her full lips and infrequent smiles suggests a slightly curvier Anna Karina." based on the novel by Madame de Lafayette; director of photography Laurent Brunet; edited by Chantal Hymans; produced by Joey Faré Florence Dormoy and Sophie Barrat; released by IFC Films. At the BAMcinématek BAM Rose Cinemas 30 Lafayette Avenue Fort Greene Brooklyn. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6557
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/04/movies/04twel.html
Alexander Novototsky-Vlasov and Vladimir Moiseenko based on the screenplay “12 Angry Men” by Reginald Rose; director of photography Vladislav Opeliants; edited by Andrey Zaitsev and Enzo Meniconi; music by Edward Artemiev; production designer Victor Petrov; produced by Leonid Vereschagin and Mr. Mikhalkov; released by Sony Pictures Classics. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. In Russian and Chechen with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 39 minutes." a sparrow finds its way into the gym where it flutters around frantically." which  lend it a brawling energy “12” is never dull. Think of the gym as a convention hall in which delegates gathered from near and far have assembled to hash out their disagreements in a marathon national psychodrama." bearish men of late middle age who carry the scars of historical and personal traumas. As they debate the fate of an 18-year-old Chechen youth (Apti Magamaev) accused of murdering his adoptive father a Russian officer many of their speeches have the ring of stentorian arias projected to the rafters. Several of their stories have the fantastical quality of modern folk tales." the engineer regales them with the story of his own descent into alcoholism and suicidal despair and his subsequent redemption. If it makes more political than psychological sense the same could be said of several of the other more colorful stories." which  originated as a 1954 teleplay written by Reginald Rose it is essentially a different animal. In the screenplay written by the director with Vladimir Moiseenko and Alexander Novototsky-Vlasov the effort expended by a fractious jury to reach an agreement could be taken as a hopeful metaphor for the country’s struggle to achieve an elusive national unity." ” Nikita Mikhalkov’s grandiloquent remake of “12 Angry Men ” the elements of that modest courtroom classic have been enlarged to operatic dimensions. In this modern interpretation directed by Mr. Mikhalkov whose 1994 movie “Burnt by the Sun ” won an Academy Award for best foreign-language film the clashes among 12 Muscovites charged with determining  the guilt or innocence of a young man accused of murder form a composite portrait of post-Soviet Russia." the 12 jurors are dispatched to a decrepit high school gymnasium next to the courthouse whose condition suggests Russia’s crumbling infrastructure. Asbestos bursts from a leaky steam pipe that runs across the ceiling and the lights periodically flicker on and off." “12 ” which was nominated this year for a foreign-language Academy Award is extravagantly lengthy. But as it barrels along it is consistently entertaining if not always  easy to read. Interwoven with the deliberations are murky flashbacks of the accused killer’s harsh childhood in war-torn Chechnya. The movie squanders valuable time with repeated scenes of the young man shivering from the cold as he paces his cell awaiting the verdict." as the jurors weigh the credibility of two eyewitnesses and examine the murder weapon a knife. Using the athletic equipment at hand they improvise a re-creation of the murder that undercuts the prosecution’s version of events." anti-Semitic cab driver (Sergey Garmash) who despises all non-Russians and dismisses the accused young man as “a stinking Chechen dog.” In the most melodramatic scene he intimidates a Harvard-educated producer of reality television (Yuri Stoyanov) into changing his vote by forcing him to imagine that he has returned home to find his wife and daughter butchered by the kind of violent killer he assumes the defendant  to be. His sadistic fantasy drives the neurotic producer to a retching panic attack." Nikita Mikhalkov (Foreman) Sergey Garmash (Cabbie) Valentin Gaft (Elderly Jewish Man) Alexey Petrenko (Transit Worker) Yuri Stoyanov (TV Producer) Sergey Gazarov (Surgeon) Mikhail Efremov (Traveling Actor) Alexander Adabashian (Marshall the Bailiff) and Apti Magamaev (Chechen Accused Man)." who demonstrates his knife-throwing expertise; and an avaricious cemetery director  whose gleeful descriptions of how he cheats his clients suggests a society in which corruption is endemic. Mr. Mikhalkov plays the jury foreman who near the end of the film spills his own secrets." 11 of the jurors eager to resume their daily lives unthinkingly vote guilty on the first ballot. After the lone dissenter an engineer who invented a cellphone diode (Sergey Makovetsky) insists that they remain long enough to consider the consequences of rubber-stamping the prosecution’s  case they reluctantly settle down to debate." 
6558
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/27/movies/27trou.html
” an airless fragmented feature that’s been kicking around since 2007 opens on a hotel-room tryst between an enthusiastic pretty boy (Kip Pardue) and a distracted blonde (Jennifer Siebel Newsom). Within minutes the woman has repaired to the bathroom for an imaginary chat with her ex while her bewildered lover wonders if he should hang around. You will probably be wondering the same." men get stoned and a photograph is defiled." Sharri Hefner and Mike Su; director of photography Nathan Wilson; edited by Jacqueline Cambas; music by Daniel Cage; production designer Nicolas Plotquin; produced by Emily Liu Mr. Rhee and Jennifer Siebel Newsom; released by Girls Club Entertainment and Sweet Violet Films. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes." noisomely for itself ) four variously entwined couples navigate romantic crises in separate rooms of the same hotel. In one a married woman surprises her henpecked husband with an impromptu bondage session and a three-way with her office temp. In another a gorgeous prostitute donates her services to a heartbroken client as a reminder that love is priceless. Oh please: even Julia Roberts was smart enough to keep the cash." Kip Pardue (Jack) Coby Ryan McLaughin (Steve) David Eigenberg (Paul) Josie Davis (Karen) Portia Dawson (Rachel) Emily Liu (Stephanie) Roger Fan (Jimmy) Sheetal Sheth (Nicole) and Jordan Belfi (Charlie)." ” “The Trouble With Romance” is visually stagnant and tonally bewildered. As characters exchange platitudes and burp clichés the director Gene Rhee (who also co-wrote) reveals a clouded eye and a tin ear. Or maybe he just has a lot of friends who actually say “for reals.”" 
6559
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/27/movies/27dill.html
episodic story written by Mr. Ferreri and Sergio Bazzini opens abruptly with Mr. Piccoli’s character Glauco standing in a  noisy room that looks like some kind of factory or laboratory. Glauco who is apparently an industrial designer has created a gas mask that’s being tested inside a sealed chamber. The experience of wearing a mask mirrors the alienation we experience in the world says a man in a white lab coat who then invokes  the social theorist Herbert Marcuse. Glauco looks too distracted to appreciate the weight of these comments which in any event seem more directed at us. The man   continues to play with this intellectual thread in the next scene.   Glauco just waves a pocket watch at him." watching movies spying on his seminude maid and abusing his zonked-out wife with a toy snake and worse. The film itself comes close to stopping time mostly through long boring scenes of Glauco doing nothing much at all. There is silence and sleep and night and paradise true. But these potentially liberating moments which might have been given intriguing form by more careful hands register as self-indulgent noodling. All this might be tolerable if Mr. Ferreri’s attitude toward women were not as ugly as his sloppy visual style. But Mr. Ferreri whose best-known film is “La Grande Bouffe” (1973) about some men who eat themselves to death is clearly more committed to administering shocks in this film than in examining his own contribution to social domination." Mario Vulpiani; edited by Mirella Mercio; produced by Ever Haggiag and Alfred Levy; released by Janus Films. At the BAMcinématek BAM Rose Cinemas 30 Lafayette Avenue Fort Greene Brooklyn. In Italian with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." he sets about preparing an alternative. During his preparations he discovers a carefully wrapped gun that might have been owned by the American gangster John Dillinger who appears briefly in black-and-white newsreel footage. Glauco continues making dinner even as he dismantles lubricates (with olive oil) reassembles and paints the gun (red with white polka dots). In time the meal is consumed and the gun of course discharged. He splits and heads out to sea where nominally free from his bourgeois fetters he sails to Tahiti in the company of a nubile young thing in a green bikini." at its best art represents what he calls “the Great Refusal — the protest against that which is.” Over his long night Glauco undergoes a transformation that directly invokes the mythic figure Orpheus whom Marcuse sees as a symbol of the Great Refusal. Orpheus represents liberation through “the redemption of pleasure the halt of time the absorption of death; silence sleep night paradise ” virtues that Mr. Ferreri attempts to replicate in “Dillinger Is Dead.”" this 1969 curio first popped up at the Museum of Modern Art in 1970  but is only now receiving American distribution. Although it’s easy to see why buyers initially passed on the film a clumsy attempt to translate radical social theory into cinema it remains worth a look.  That’s largely because its star Michel Piccoli is always worth a look even when he isn’t given much to work with and because of what the film suggests about the limits of certain types of political art. It will play at the BAM Rose Cinemas for one week before going into limited national release." Anita Pallenberg (Ginette) and Annie Girardot (Sabine)." 
6560
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/27/movies/27jona.html
a kind of secular fetish designed to induce rapture. Submitting to the experience requires initiation into the teenybopper cult of the Jonas brothers trinity —  Joe Kevin and Nick —  purveyors of innocuous repetitive guitar pop and the kind of bland sexuality that provokes a certain type of teenage girl to wait 72 hours in the rain in Times Square for a chance to glimpse the godhead." “Jonas Brothers” consists of concert footage from a 2008 Madison Square Garden spectacular supplemented by ridiculous behind-the-scenes tidbits: the brothers pull up to a Virgin Megastore for the midnight release of their new album fend off a throng of screaming fans purchase three copies then pile back into the limo and drive away." Mitchell Amundsen and Reed Smoot; edited by Michael Tronick; produced by Art Repola Johnny Wright Philip McIntyre Kevin Jonas Sr. and Alan Sacks; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 16 minutes. This film is rated G." cameras or cellphones. Guitar picks are repeatedly — three dimensionally! — chucked at the screen. If you’ve ever wanted to crawl into Kevin’s chest hair this is as close as you’re likely to get without incurring a restraining order." 
6561
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/27/movies/27cros.html
Ray Liotta (Cole Frankel) Ashley Judd (Denise Frankel) Jim Sturgess (Gavin Kossef) Cliff Curtis (Hamid Baraheri) Alice Braga (Mireya Sanchez) Alice Eve (Claire Shepard) Justin Chon (Yong Kim) Summer Bishil (Taslima Jahangir) and Ogechi Egonu (Alike)." strong language and the occasionally bared female breast and buttock." it’s also what defines and limits each and every character. Yet much like the characters’ diversity — the huddled masses include a Mexican mother and son an Australian actress and a Korean family — immigration isn’t really the point here. Violence is. When a zealous Muslim teenager Taslima (Summer Bishil) the daughter of Bangladeshi immigrants delivers a naïve essay on the Sept. 11 hijackers at school the speech doesn’t prompt any soul-searching. It isn’t meant to: it’s simply a device to show (prove) how wretchedly bigoted everyone in this rainbow coalition actually is from the black teenagers who hurl insults at Taslima to the white  F.B.I. agent who comes cataclysmically knocking on her family’s door." James Whitaker; edited by Arthur Coburn; music by Mark Isham; production designer Toby Corbett; produced by Frank Marshall and Mr. Kramer; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." the grossly exploitative flicks tend to be more entertaining or at least bearable than the earnestly instructive variant. (Sam Fuller was a master of the exploitative political film.) Such is the  case initially with “Crossing Over ” which tries through a carefully balanced range of characters to tackle some of the thornier problems involving immigration in America post-Sept. 11. Largely set in that boiling multicultural hot pot known as Southern California with a few stops south of the border the mosaiclike story oscillates between various unrelated immigrants legal and otherwise and the American citizens who are trying to help or  hinder them. The film’s most obvious models are “Crash” and “Babel ” which both advance their multi-everything messages structurally with fragmented multistrand narratives." ” it is in part because he doesn’t seem equally committed to all his characters.  Though he’s come up with a veritable United Nations of human-interest stories  — including those of an African child stuck in a detention center and an Iranian patriarch on the verge of citizenship — he spends most of his time hanging out with his film’s more familiar faces.  By far the most well known is the appealingly gruff Harrison Ford as Max Brogan an officer for Immigration and Customs Enforcement who comes equipped with a marshmallow heart and a flinty partner with serious culture-shock issues of his own Hamid (a very fine Cliff Curtis)." American filmmakers tend to fall into two camps the grossly exploitative and the earnestly instructive. On the earnestly instructive side are well-intentioned downers and uppers like “Grand Canyon” and their lower-budget equivalents like “The Visitor” and “Frozen River ” which offer prescriptive lessons in tolerance. On the grossly exploitative are those films like Wayne Kramer’s “Crossing Over ” that deliver their sanctimony with less hand-wringing and more fist-shaking complete with lurid violence and for no real narrative reason periodically bared female flesh." his film would be easier to respect. But time and again he undermines his own righteousness  by pumping up the violence (gangbangers threaten the Korean family) and stripping down  his talent including the Australian Claire (Alice Eve) who after attracting the sexual interest of a sleazy immigration bureaucrat Cole (Ray Liotta) ends up taking really long showers. Cole is married to an immigration lawyer Denise (Ashley Judd) who wants to adopt the African child (Ogechi Egonu)  languishing in the same detention center that Taslima lands in. It’s all just one big circle of life which doubtless explains why Mr. Kramer routinely tries to bridge these stories with aerial images of Southern California freeways where people of every origin flow together except you know during rush hour." 
6562
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/27/movies/27blec.html
” Mr. Blecker justifies his views by appealing to an intuitive if inexact sense of justice as well as a kind of Old Testament wrathfulness. More than once his opponents accuse him of playing God." ” a documentary by Ted Schillinger goes to the heart of the death penalty debate. Specifically it considers the feelings — empathy righteousness fury — that guide Robert Blecker a professor at New York Law School and prominent advocate for capital punishment." ” Mr. Blecker insists. “I’m moved by rage by anger by hatred.” Those are dubious criteria for demanding other people’s deaths and viewers who oppose capital punishment are likely to judge the professor a bit of a crank while those who support it may find themselves wishing for a less bombastic spokesman." Matthew Howe and Mr. Schillinger; edited by Kendrick Simmons; music by Dan Dolan; produced by Bruce David Klein; released by Atlas Media Corp. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated." he develops a relationship with Daryl Holton a charismatic multiple murderer whose wry informed take on crime and punishment proves unsettling to Mr. Blecker’s certitude." Mr. Schillinger remains neutral to a fault. His documentary while compelling can also be frustrating." 
6563
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/27/movies/27affa.html
paranoid thriller with pretensions to historicity “An American Affair” might not seem so offensively exploitative. The fact that it is quite well acted especially by Ms. Mol who has the air of a sophisticated 1960s party animal down pat only compounds the insult." seeing as one of her regular lovers is President John F. Kennedy whom Adam spies ducking into the house while a Secret Service detail patrols the entrance. All Washington including Graham and his sinister C.I.A. boss Lucian Carver (James Rebhorn) seems to know about the affair." James Rebhorn (Lucian Carver) Cameron Bright (Adam Stafford) Mark Pellegrino (Graham Caswell) Perrey Reeves (Adrienne Stafford) and Noah Wyle (Mike Stafford)." but it was not yet synonymous with the American involvement in Vietnam then still in the early stages of heating up. “Vietnam post-napalm” was  nearly a decade down the road." “An American Affair” has illusions of itself as a serious docudrama. But as it wades deeper into a conspiratorial swamp that involves angry Cubans a shadowy C.I.A. plot and Adam’s pilfering of Catherine’s tell-all diary the movie becomes  a risible fusion of cloak-and-dagger melodrama and prurient coming-of-age story (“Summer of  ’63”?). In the most squirm-inducing scene the boy and his centerfold drawn together by grief actually lock lips." directed by William Sten Olsson from a screenplay by Alex Metcalf is set mostly in the months between the Bay of Pigs fiasco and Kennedy’s assassination. It subscribes wholeheartedly to the history-as-pornography school of thinking in which all will be revealed if you can figure out who is sleeping with whom when and where and what they do in bed. Any resemblance between Catherine and Marilyn Monroe  is glaringly intentional." gravely spoken by a surly drunken C.I.A. agent (Mark Pellegrino) to his fetching ex-wife  (Gretchen Mol) encapsulates everything that is wrong with the deeply silly movie “An American Affair.”" Adam is so besotted with his real-life centerfold that he summons the courage to knock on Catherine’s door and ask for work.  She obliges by enlisting his help as a part-time gardener. Before long Adam has turned into a stalker. One night he finds himself peeping through the shutters of her bedroom closet while she has sex." Graham Caswell is referring to the dug-up garden  behind the Washington town house of Catherine his ex. An abstract painter and sexual free spirit Catherine likes to lounge around the house half-naked smoking cigarettes seemingly unaware that Adam Stafford (Cameron Bright) the pimply 13-year-old boy from across the way is ogling her." David Insley; edited by Scott Chestnut; music by Dustin O’Halloran; production designer Vincent Peranio; produced by Kevin Leydon; released by Screen Media Films. At the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village.  Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." 
6564
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/25/movies/25exam.html
judging from “Examined Life” alone that other traditions and priorities exist. But this is the filmmaker’s blind spot and should not necessarily be held against the professors who oblige her curiosity and try to answer her questions." within certain limits. For some reason Ms. Taylor has drawn her subjects from a narrow intellectual precinct where the work of philosophical speculation and the agendas of progressive politics are assumed to be congruent. When Mr. Zizek utters the word “conservative” as a self-evident synonym for “unthinking” or “pernicious ” he is giving voice to a shared in some cases unexamined notion that as Karl Marx put it in his 11th Thesis on Feuerbach the point is not to interpret the world but to change it." not all are philosophers strictly speaking but they are all entertainers of big questions as well as earnest often entertaining talkers. Part of the fun of “Examined Life” comes from watching these very intelligent people try to make themselves intelligible." indeed “Examined Life” is less a tour of present-day philosophy than a study in academic celebrity. Ms. Taylor has offered each of her subjects the chance to show off a little and they find different ways of rising to the opportunity of subverting it. Some like Mr. Zizek Mr. Hardt and the Princeton ethicist Peter Singer explicitly comment on their surroundings. Judith Butler a gender theorist at the University of California Berkeley makes the act of taking a walk into an occasion for philosophical inquiry. Accompanied by the filmmaker’s sister  Sunaura Taylor who uses a wheelchair because of a disability Ms. Butler in effect transposes some of her difficult and subtle ideas about bodies identity and social space into the language of everyday life." we’re reminded — for a modest intermittently engaging film. Astra Taylor whose previous documentary feature “Zizek! ” is the second-best film ever made about the Slovenian superstar theorist Slavoj Zizek here expands her frame of reference to include seven other prominent contemporary thinkers." ever the showman appears in an orange safety vest at a waste-disposal site offering a contrarian critique of the way in his view the ecological movement idealizes nature. His harangue is amusing and occasionally provocative except that rather than addressing the particulars of environmental politics he is gleefully setting fire to a straw man of his own construction." the Princeton professor whose back-seat ramblings punctuate the film (everyone else has a single uninterrupted minicolloquium) clearly takes great pleasure in talking and it is hard not to share it at least in small doses. A man of great one might say compulsive erudition — not one to drop the name of a single great writer composer or sage if five are available — he makes the case that thought can be a kind of performance art." ” which is on the whole a bit too glamorized by its brainy stars to engage them critically. Nor does it invite them to argue with one another such contention after all being the real substance and practice of philosophy." John M. Tran; edited by Robert Kennedy; produced by Bill Imperial and Lea Marin; released by Zeitgeist Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes. This film is not rated." and the sincerity of her admiration is not unwelcome since nothing is easier than subjecting serious people to mockery. Which doesn’t mean that they sometimes don’t deserve it." to transport them from the page and the seminar room into public spaces. Kwame Anthony Appiah of Princeton muses on cosmopolitanism in a departure lounge at the Toronto airport. Avital Ronell a literary theorist at New York University strolls slowly around Tompkins Square Park while Martha Nussbaum a law professor at the University of Chicago strides purposefully along the edge of Lake Michigan." co-author of “Empire ” who muses on the incongruity of talking about revolutionary politics in Central Park a place he characterizes as “aristocratic.” Perhaps he is speaking in a highly specialized political idiom according to which a free public space designed by a onetime abolitionist and radical journalist somehow supports the prerogatives of inherited wealth and power. Or perhaps he’s just not a very clear thinker." 
6565
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/25/movies/25bird.html
as the three kings (Lluis Carbó Lluis Serrat Batlle and Lluis Serrat Masanellas) — identifiable by their crowns and robes — stumble stoically through a bleak and picturesque Spanish landscape. At times their bickering suggests the stooges more than the magi as they negotiate deserts thickets mountainsides and the recalcitrance of their own slow bulky bodies." reverent grace in the way Mr. Serra films these serious clownish men treating them as curious features of the natural world. There is not much dialogue and the narrative action such as it is is slow and deliberate." contemplative sometimes inscrutable film which finds strangeness in  a familiar story — and also in the world itself from which Mr. Serra’s camera coaxes an obdurate enigmatic beauty." Neus Ollé and Jimmy Gimferrer; edited by Àngel Martín and Mr. Serra; music by Pau Casals; production designer Mr. Gimferrer; produced by Montse Triola and Lluis Miñarro. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. In Catalan and Hebrew with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." nurturing a small lamb that may also be their baby Jesus. The only overt intimation of holiness around them comes when the Wise Men arrive and for the first and only time the soundtrack which has been dominated by the sound suggested in the film’s title swells with music. (The piece by Pau Casals is also called “El Cant dels Ocells.”) But then the world continues on its way as do the magi who find themselves in a forest talking about their dreams." Lluis Serrat Batlle and  Lluis Serrat Masanellas (three kings); Montse Triola (Mary); Mark Peranson (Joseph); and Victoria Aragonès (angel)." a lovely and strange new film by the Catalan director Albert Serra is less a retelling of the Nativity story than a dream about it filtered in lovely black and white through a sensibility that recalls Luis Buñuel and Samuel Beckett." 
6566
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/21/movies/21made.html
but it was on her large frame (which is to say his own augmented by body padding and a gray wig) that Mr. Perry built his entertainment empire. (There are plays books a studio in Atlanta and two sitcoms on TBS.) And her function is to cut through the piety and sentimentality without subverting it. She won’t set foot in church abuses family members who do and refuses to be cured by Dr. Phil but she is not so much cynical or mocking as righteously raucously honest." since Madea is of course played by Mr. Perry who is the writer the director and a producer (he also plays two other roles). His formula is by now well established in movies like “Madea’s Family Reunion” and “The Family That Preys ” even if his filmmaking technique remains noticeably unpolished. His stories swerve sometimes as violently as Madea’s 1978 Cadillac from low comedy to high feeling from tears to belly laughs. Their messages are sometimes muddled but always emphatic an expansive collection of homilies preaching compassion self-reliance forgiveness and revenge." sexual situations and drug references." also known as Mabel Simmons losing her cool (for neither the first time nor the last) in “Tyler Perry’s Madea Goes to Jail.” The only possible response to this question — and I offer it with all respect not wishing to ruffle Ms. Simmons’s formidable feathers — is: If you can’t stand the melodrama then get out of the Tyler Perry movie." ” which opened Friday without advance press screenings. Mr. Perry dutifully gives his audience what it wants but you can’t help feeling that he might also have more to offer: more coherent narratives smoother direction better movies. Still as long as he has Madea — a force of nature and now something of a pop-culture institution — he might not need any of that." do I have to listen to all this melodrama?”" unruly matriarch — are her muttering motormouthed harangues. The rest of it is a fairly clumsy tale of sin and redemption involving a young assistant district attorney (Derek Luke) whose impending marriage to a colleague (Ion Overman) is disrupted when he runs across a childhood friend (the former “Cosby Show” moppet Keshia Knight Pulliam) fallen into a life of prostitution and addiction. Mr. Luke and Viola Davis who plays a minister are superb actors (Ms. Pulliam is pretty good too) and at times their intensity is almost too much for the movie making the transitions from raw emotion to silly humor all the more jarring." 
6567
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/20/movies/20must.html
directed and edited by Morgan Dews; director of photography Allis; music by Paul Damian Hogan; produced by Mr. Dews and Sarah Langley; released by Gigantic Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Available outside of New York as a download through giganticreleasing.com. Running time: 1 hour 16 minutes. This film is not rated." using seamlessly stitched-together home movies and  photographs to flesh out the visual part of his portrait. On occasion he throws some expository text on the screen rather than resorting to a narrator perhaps in the belief that an outside voice might dilute the power of the family members’ own voices or come across as an intruder. This keeps the focus fixed though after listening to the nonstop venting by Allis Charley and their  increasingly miserable sons — Mr. Dews’s mother the family’s only daughter Anne left as soon as she could — you yearn for another voice any voice to cut in and offer the family a dissenting opinion a word of advice something." the documentary “Must Read After My Death” raises unsettling questions about the erosion of the private sphere. After his maternal grandmother died in 2001 the director Morgan Dews learned she had left behind a rich archive in the form of eight-millimeter films reel-to-reel recordings and a file of written materials labeled “Must Read After My Death.” Mr. Dews not only followed these instructions he also made the materials his own artfully piecing them together to create an alternately fascinating and disquietingly intimate portrait of a 1960s American family falling apart." sometimes as a way for a filmmaker to put a human face on a social or political issue. In dysfunctional-family documentaries like “Must Read After My Death” — other titles that fall into this category are  different  works like “Capturing the Friedmans ” “51 Birch Street” and “Surfwise” — the family is front and center while the world hovers and looms in the background. What binds these movies together beyond the families is that each has a distinctly therapeutic quality whether an outsider is disinterring the secrets as in “Capturing the Friedmans ” or an insider as in “Must Read After My Death.”" at least initially make for absorbing viewing and listening. The grandmother Allis was independent minded and to judge from her loudly voiced complaints gravely unhappy. Along with her husband Charley though often without him — his long work-related absences were one source of her discontent — she was raising four children in suburban Connecticut.  As a way for everyone to keep in touch while Charlie traveled the family began to make and exchange recorded messages. As the children grew  older however Allis’s restless agitation took on an air of desperation even panic. There were freakouts and breakdowns Allis started seeing a psychiatrist and through it all the family members continued to make recordings sharing their hearts and fears with one another and increasingly their rage." we have become habituated to watching other people live their lives in public. And it’s precisely because we are accustomed to watching people love and hurt on reality television and in online social networks blogs and the latest hot doc off the festival circuit that questions of exploitation and agency feel so urgent. More and more the expectation of privacy is being replaced by a demand for exploitation self-generated and not. That’s why while I admire how Mr. Dews has constructed his movie on a formal level I can’t help but wonder how his grandmother would feel if she knew her family’s trauma has been repackaged for our queasy consumption." 
6568
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/20/movies/20fire.html
” a kind of dumb but also kind of smart-about-being-dumb comedy centered on two teenage horndogs on full sniff at a cheerleading camp. Football players and best friends Shawn (Nicholas D’Agosto) and Nick (Eric Christian Olsen) both of whom look well north of 20 join their school’s cheerleading squad in order to spend part of their summer at a camp surrounded by little ladies  in tiny tops and micro shorts. Though the boys are in it for the honeys the story gets sticky when Shawn develops a crush on the squad’s leader Carly (Sarah Roemer) a predictable turnabout that allows the filmmakers to indulge in all sorts of ha-ha sexist blather and high jinks before Mr. Porky makes way for Mr. Sensitivity." Thomas Ackerman; edited by Tracey Wadmore-Smith; music by Richard Gibbs; production designer Marcia Hinds; produced by Matthew Gross Peter Jaysen and Charles Weinstock; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes." Will Gluck making his feature debut hasn’t a clue where to put the camera but he gives the pop-culturally savvy lines rhythm and zing. “You know what John Lennon said ” one teenager says in a typical exchange. “Not really ” says the other “I’m not in my 50s.”" at least on the page: the script also includes an out-of-context and -character riff pegged to Hepburn and Tracy which suggests that the anonymous screenwriters working under the team name Freedom Jones are taking a few cues from that screwball postmodernist Diablo Cody. (A clip from “On the Waterfront ” by contrast seems like a bid to prove that the filmmakers aren’t as shallow as their movie.)" Eric Christian Olsen (Nick Brady) Sarah Roemer (Carly) Molly Sims (Diora) Danneel Harris (Bianca) Adhir Kalyan (Brewster) AnnaLynne McCord (Gwyneth) Philip Baker Hall (Coach Byrnes) and John Michael Higgins (Coach Keith)." no matter how meta and self-consciously knowing teen  comedies like “Fired Up!” are basically just recycling the same jokes plots and mating rituals that fueled the Frankie and Annette beach party flicks of the 1960s. These new parties tend to be racier of course but they nonetheless boil down to a scantily clad boy going gaga over a scantily clad girl amid the usual cacophony of thudding music a phalanx of adolescent wisenheimers and at least one wacky sexually ambiguous authority figure. Paul Lynde took on that role if without much ambiguity in the 1965 Frankie and Annette romp “Beach Blanket Bingo ” and here John Michael Higgins does same as Coach Keith pompom royalty." “Fired Up!” is the latest addition to the wave of cheerleader movies that first hit way back in 2000 with “Bring It On.” Although the deeper reasons for this sub-genre’s new popularity remain obscure — a character in “Fired Up!” does mention that George W. Bush was a cheerleader before he was president — it’s clear that the spectacle of flexible and lithe young female hardbodies stretching and jumping and bending over to salute the camera with their derrières constitutes its own rationale particularly when a studio is in the stupid business." 
6569
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/20/movies/20elev.html
” directed by Michael Selditch and Rob Tate might be described as a low-rent answer to  Douglas Keeve’s documentary about Isaac Mizrahi “Unzipped” (1995) a movie that also revealed the fundamental silliness of fashion though it had some glamour attached. Here Mr. McCarroll a self-deprecating show-off with a whiny voice and his unpaid assistants scuffle over eight months to come up with the cheap materials and outsourced labor to turn his sketches into items that in the end nobody buys. Famemongers are advised to heed the film’s cautionary message: Fleeting celebrity on reality television comes with no guarantee of an afterlife." Los Angeles Philadelphia Phoenix and San Francisco." when Mr. McCarroll arrived for Fashion Week at Bryant Park in Manhattan he was already a niche celebrity having been the first winner of the Bravo series “Project Runway.” Mr. McCarroll who titles his show “Transport” (his visual signature is a drawing of a hot-air balloon) has a zany imagination." Alex Wolfe Mr. Tate and Mr. Selditch; edited by Mr. Tate; released by Regent Releasing. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." he declares include “diarrhea and vaginal discharge.” Most of his clothes are novelty creations unsuitable for everyday wear; not one is beautiful or even flattering. Playful? Yes. His most flamboyant runway model affects the towering beehive hairdo of Kate Pierson of the B-52s and wears an outfit to match." ” he is painfully aware of the absurdity of his enterprise. “It’s all for this stupid result: a fashion show!” he scoffs. “Come on! Fashion is the dumbest industry.” After watching the film whose title describes the average duration of a parade of runway models you may agree. In its frenzied preparation and execution the event suggests a chaotic circus of show and tell put on by meanspirited brats." 
6570
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/20/movies/20delh.html
Sonam Kapoor (Bittu) Rishi Kapoor (Ali) Waheeda Rehman (Dadi) Prem Chopra (Lala Bhairam) and Om Puri (Madan Gopal)." sentimental and often too self-conscious the movie follows an American of Indian descent (Abhishek Bachchan) who brings his ailing grandmother to Delhi to spend her last days. Mr. Mehra’s storytelling method more exploratory than linear loosely weaves big themes — caste untouchability Hindu-Muslim tensions the perfidy of priests and politicians — into a series of small vignettes." which robs its ending — a finale as joltingly (melo)dramatic as any in Bollywood — of the impact it intends." a director who has found a way to make personal films within the commercial Hindi cinema. His ambitions are vast: “Delhi-6” is nothing less than a referendum on the modern Indian soul." Ravi K. Chandran; edited by P. S. Bharti; music by A. R. Rahman; produced by Mr. Mehra and Ronnie Screwvala; released by UTV. In Hindi and English with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes. This film is not rated." Mr. Bachchan keeps things light as Roshan the American who falls in love with Delhi and a Delhi girl (Sonam  Kapoor). But who is this guy? What kind of life — job? girlfriend? — has he left behind in New York?" the area with the Chandni Chowk marketplace and the Red Fort) and wants to create a multifaceted portrait of the city and its inhabitants. At times he does. But his burbling stew of a tale takes too long to find itself and the tone can veer uncomfortably from the lightly banal (how charming are the folk and folkways of Delhi!) to the darkly serious (how violent are the folk and folkways of Delhi!)." 
6571
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/18/movies/18katy.html
but the film’s dramatic momentum is carried by the sisters mothers and widows of the dead whose attempts to hold on to the truth are almost unbearably poignant. Maja Ostaszewska is quietly magnificent as Andrzej’s wife Anna who clings to the hope that he has somehow survived. Others like the sisters of a young lieutenant try to figure out how to honor his memory and carry on with their lives. One of them risks arrest by commissioning a gravestone with the accurate date of his death while the other resigns herself to an occasional gesture of subversion and the knowledge that “Poland will never be free.”" in Mr. Wajda a tireless clear-sighted chronicler. At 82 he has produced in movies like “Ashes and Diamonds” and “Man of Marble ” an unparalleled cinematic record of Polish history and “Katyn ” nominated for an Academy Award last year is a powerful corrective to decades of distortion and forgetting." shooting nearly 15 000  men in Katyn Forest including Mr. Wajda’s father and burying them in mass graves. As Mr. Wajda makes clear the intent was not simply to destroy Poland’s military command but also to purge its population of engineers intellectuals and other citizens whose education and expertise might help the country to function independently." it became for much of the rest of the world a hazy footnote a symbol of Poland’s enduring historical bad luck." ” Andrzej Wajda’s solemn and searing new film takes place on a bridge somewhere in Poland in mid-September 1939. The bridge is aswarm with people fleeing in opposite directions. Panicked families trying to escape the Germans who invaded on the first of the month collide with equally terrified compatriots coming from the eastern part of the country scene of a recent Soviet intervention." Wladyslaw Pasikowski and Przemyslaw Nowakowski based on the novel “Post Mortem” by Andrzej Mularczyk; director of photography Pawel Edelman; edited by Milenia Fiedler and Rafal Listopad; music by Krzysztof Penderecki; produced by Michal Kwiecinski; released by Koch Lorber Films. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street West Village. In Polish with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 1 minute. This film is not rated." when the Nazis and the Soviets resumed their customary aggression each used the other’s barbarity for propaganda. The Germans dug up the bodies in Katyn and promoted themselves as protectors of the Poles against Bolshevik terror. When the tide of war turned the Red Army repeated the exercise blaming Hitler and fudging the dates of the massacre so it could be added to the list of German atrocities." Artur Zmijewski (Andrzej) Andrzej Chyra (Jerzy) and Jan Englert (General)." the film explores both the events leading up to the massacre and its aftermath following a group of officers and their families through the agonies of war and the miseries of peacetime under Communism circling back to end with an unsparing reconstruction of some of the killings." when it was caught in the pincers of two toxic strains of European totalitarianism. In 1939  Hitler and Stalin pledged mutual nonaggression a pact that lasted long enough for their armies to collude in the destruction of Polish sovereignty." meanwhile contributed to this project by shutting down universities and rounding up professors. Just as one character the army captain Andrzej (Artur Zmijewski) awaits his fate at the hands of the Russians his father a professor in Krakow falls into the hands of the SS." he focuses on the grief and confusion of his characters and on the ferocity with which they hold on to  the dignity that history conspires to strip from them. The result is a film with a stately deliberate quality that insulates it against sentimentality and makes it all the more devastating." 
6572
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/13/movies/moonstruck.html
make them behave in wonderful unpredictably crazy ways. Not crazy enough." who has a role so awful that it's hard to know whom to blame. Ronny is a slob. He works stoking the oven in a bakery (as he describes the job it's ''sweat and sweat and sweat and shove this stinkin' dough in and out of this hot hole in the wall!''). Ronny is also missing a hand which he lost when Johnny came to see him years earlier and Ronny lost in conversation forgot to keep an eye on the bread slicer. It's impossible to tell whether this is supposed to be funny but the film does carry a ''Mr. Cage's Hand Design'' credit for Eion Sprott." directed by Norman Jewison; written by John Patrick Shanley; director of photography David Watkin; film editor Lou Lombardo; music by Dick Hyman; production designer Philip Rosenberg; produced by Patrick Palmer and Mr. Jewison; released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. At Sutton Third Avenue at 57th Street; 84th Street Six at Broadway. Running time: 102 minutes. This film is rated PG. Loretta Castorini...Cher Ronny Cammareri...Nicolas Cage Cosmo Castorini...Vincent Gardenia Rose Castorini...Olympia Dukakis Mr. Johnny Cammareri...Danny Aiello Rita Cappomaggi...Julie Bovasso Perry...John Mahoney Raymond Cappomaggi...Louis Guss" who has a large old-fashioned family and a job in a funeral parlor. As the film begins Loretta becomes engaged to Johnny Cammareri a doltish nice-guy type played by Danny Aiello (in addition to Castorinis and Cammareris there are also several Cappomaggis in the screenplay by John Patrick Shanley). Loretta is a widow it develops. She's also the kind of woman who can explain that her first husband was run over by a bus in an utterly uninterested tone of voice." '' which opens today at the Sutton and other theaters was directed by Norman Jewison who may just be the Sir Richard Attenborough of light comedy. However it offers further proof that Cher has evolved into the kind of larger-than-life movie star who's worth watching whatever she does. This time she plays frumpy which for Cher just means longer hems and a little gray in her hair. Those who wait for a Cinderella-like transformation will not be disappointed." '' and a lot of other things do too. ''Moonstruck'' is so heavily ethnic that it begins with Dean Martin's rendition of ''That's Amore '' and there's plenty more where that came from. With its accordion music its bits of dialect and its love of opera (a key segment of the story unfolds at a Metropolitan Opera performance of ''La Boheme'') ''Moonstruck'' clearly means to celebrate all things Italian. However it creates the false but persistent impression that most of the people who made it have never been closer to Italy than perhaps Iowa." glaring light). Among the actors playing Loretta's older relatives are Julie Bovasso Feodor Chaliapin Jr. Vincent Gardenia (as the father who spends much of the time listening to Vikki Carr sing ''It Must Be Him'') and Olympia Dukakis who has a comic sourness to match Cher's and manages to have some good moments." 
6573
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/13/movies/leavinglasvegas.html
fluid earlier films (before being sidetracked by the unaccountably listless "Mr. Jones" and "The Browning Version") Mr. Figgis gives his narrative a musical dimension. A sometime musician who composed this film's jazzy score Mr. Figgis uses a haunting soundtrack (with several vocal numbers performed by Sting) to turn this into a sustained moody reverie. Indeed the film's musical effectiveness minimizes some of its dramatic contrivance especially where Sera is concerned. Ms. Shue gives a daring and affecting performance but she's essentially playing one more whore with a heart of gold.""s he did in his fine fluid earlier films (before being sidetracked by the unaccountably listless "Mr. Jones" and "The Browning Version") Mr. Figgis gives his narrative a musical dimension. A sometime musician who composed this film's jazzy score Mr. Figgis uses a haunting soundtrack (with several vocal numbers performed by Sting) to turn this into a sustained moody reverie. Indeed the film's musical effectiveness minimizes some of its dramatic contrivance especially where Sera is concerned. Ms. Shue gives a d"" he did in his fine fluid earlier films (before being sidetracked by the unaccountably listless "Mr. Jones" and "The Browning Version") Mr. Figgis gives his narrative a musical dimension. A sometime musician who composed this film's jazzy score Mr. Figgis uses a haunting soundtrack (with several vocal numbers performed by Sting) to turn this into a sustained moody reverie. Indeed the film's musical effectiveness ""he did in his fine fluid earlier films (before being sidetracked by the unaccountably listless "Mr. Jones" and "The Browning Version") Mr. Figgis gives his narrative a musical dimension. A sometime musician who composed this film's jazzy score Mr. Figgis uses a haunting soundtrack (with several vocal numbers performed ""e did in his fine fluid earlier films (before being sidetracked by the unaccountably listless "Mr. Jones" and "The Browning Version") Mr. Figgis gives his narrative a musical dimension. A sometime musician who composed this "" did in his fine fluid earlier films (before being sidetracked by the unaccountably listless "Mr. Jones" and "The Browning Versio""did in his fine fluid earlier film" though her troubles with a sleazy Latvian pimp (Julian Sands with a flamboyant accent) add some color. And the screenplay's attempt to create an 11th-hour crisis for Sera seems false too. For all Ms. Shue's warmth in the kind of gutsy unflinching role that often goes to Jennifer Jason Leigh "Leaving Las Vegas" never rings entirely true as a bleak love story. Ben clings to Sera as a last straw but he's still a man alone.""he awkward device of letting Sera talk about herself on a therapist's couch doesn't give her much added depth though her troubles " Ben moves on to the city of the title a very different place from the coarse brassy setting for "Showgirls." This Las Vegas is a neon apparition beautifully evoked by otherworldly contrasts and lurid nocturnal light. (The cinematography is by Declan Quinn whose work is as subtly distinctive as it was in "Vanya on 42d Street.") And here he meets Sera whose very name (as in "que sera") suggests some kind of cosmic shrug. Sera (Elisabeth Shue) a Las Vegas prostitute has somehow been waiting her whole life for a man like this.""eaving Los Angeles after being fired from his job Ben moves on to the city of the title a very different place from the coarse brassy setting for "Showgirls." This Las Vegas is a neon apparition beautifully evoked by otherworldly contrasts and lurid nocturnal light. (The cinematography is by Declan Quinn whose work is as subtly distinctive as it was in "Vanya on 42d Street.") And here he meets Sera whose very name (as in "que ""aving Los Angeles after being fired from his job Ben moves on to the city of the title a very different place from the coarse brassy setting for "Showgirls." This Las Vegas is a neon apparition beautifully evoked by otherworldly contrasts and lurid nocturnal light. (The cinematogra""ving Los Angeles after being fired from his job Ben moves on to the city of the title a very different place from the coarse brassy se" profanity sexual situations graphic language overall raunchiness and an enormous amount of drinking.""Leaving Las Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nudity profanity sexual situations graphic language overall raunchiness and an enormous amount of drinking.""eaving Las Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nudity profanity sexual situations graphic language overall raunchiness and an enormous am""aving Las Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nudity profanity sexual situations graphic language overall raunchiness an""ving Las Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nudity profanity sexual situations graphic language overall""ing Las Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nudity profanity sexual situations graphic lan""ng Las Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nudity profanity sexual situations""g Las Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nudity profanity sexua"" Las Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nudity profa""Las Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes nud""as Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It inc""s Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian)"" Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult gu""Vegas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or ad""egas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent ""gas" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying par""as" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying ""s" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanyin""" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanyi"" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanyi" played devastatingly by Nicolas Cage in "Leaving Las Vegas " is something other than the usual movie drunk. Nothing about him offers golden opportunities to the good Samaritan. Already in the terminal stages of alcoholism as the film begins Ben seems to sense his fate and want to face it in his own way with crazy bravado and a whiff of desperate romance. This small searing film watches transfixingly as Ben plays out his final hand.""en Sanderson played devastatingly by Nicolas Cage in "Leaving Las Vegas " is something other than the usual movie drunk. Nothing about him offers golden opportunities to the good Samaritan. Already in the terminal stages of alcoholism as the film begins Ben seems to sense his fate and want to face it in his own way with crazy bravado and a whiff of desperate romance. This small searing film""n Sanderson played devastatingly by Nicolas Cage in "Leaving Las Vegas " is something other than the usual movie drunk. Nothing about him offers golden opportunities to the good Samaritan. Already in the terminal stages of alcoholism as the film begins Ben seems to sense his fate and want to face it in his own way with crazy bravado and "" Sanderson played devastatingly by Nicolas Cage in "Leaving Las Vegas " is something other than the usual movie drunk. Nothing about him offers golden opportunities to the good Samaritan. Already in the terminal stages of alcoholism as the film begins Ben seems to sense his fate and wa""Sanderson played devastatingly by Nicolas Cage in "Leaving Las Vegas " is something other than the usual movie drunk. Nothing about him offers golden opportunities to the good Samaritan. Already in the terminal stages of alcoholism as""anderson played devastatingly by Nicolas Cage in "Leaving Las Vegas " is something other than the usual movie drunk. Nothing about him offers golden opportunities to the good Samarit""nderson played devastatingly by Nicolas Cage in "Leaving Las Vegas " is something other than the usual movie drunk. Nothing about h""derson played devastatingly by Nicolas Cage in "Leaving Las Vegas " is something ""erson played devastatingly by Ni" based on the novel by John O'Brien; director of photography Declan Quinn; edited by John Smith; music by Mr. Figgis; production designer Waldemar Kalinowski; produced by Lila Cazes and Annie Stewart; released by United Artists. Running time: 112 minutes. This film is rated R." Elisabeth Shue (Sera) Julian Sands (Yuri) and Valeria Golino (Terri)." without overworking the pathos of Ben's situation "Leaving Las Vegas" fully conveys the health risks of gulping vodka in the shower crashing onto a glass coffee table or otherwise lurching through life with Ben's particular abandon. A man who spends $500 for a prostitute's hourlong visit to his $29 hotel room (with "complimentary bar of soap" and lucky aces over the headboard) is a man beyond caring about the future.""t the same time without overworking the pathos of Ben's situation "Leaving Las Vegas" fully conveys the health risks of gulping vodka in the shower crashing onto a glass coffee table or otherwise lurching through life with Ben's particular abandon. A man who spends $500 for a prostitute's hourlong visit to his $29 hotel room (with "complimentary bar of soap" and lu"" the same time without overworking the pathos of Ben's situation "Leaving Las Vegas" fully conveys the health risks of gulping vodka in the shower crashing onto a glass coffee table or otherwise lurching through life with Ben's particular abandon. A man who spends $500 for a prostitute's hourlong ""the same time without overworking the pathos of Ben's situation "Leaving Las Vegas" fully conveys the health risks of gulping vodka in the shower crashing onto a glass coffee table or otherwise lurching through life with Ben's par""he same time without overworking the pathos of Ben's situation "Leaving Las Vegas" fully conveys the health risks of gulping vodka in the shower crashing onto a gl""e same time without overworking the pathos of Ben's situation "Leaving Las Vegas" fully conveys th"" same time without overworking the" it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing rage in a matter of seconds but he never has trouble getting attention.""ut "Leaving Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing rage in a matter of seconds but he never has trouble getting attent""t "Leaving Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing rage in a matter of seconds but he never has trouble getting att"" "Leaving Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing rage in a matter of seconds but he never has trouble getting a"""Leaving Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing rage in a matter of seconds but he never has trouble getting ""Leaving Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing rage in a matter of seconds but he never has trouble getting ""eaving Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing rage in a matter of seconds but he never has""aving Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing rage in a matter of seconds ""ving Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing rage in a matt""ing Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furniture-smashing ""ng Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spirits to furnit""g Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from high spiri"" Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can move from""Las Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is erratic. He can""as Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it is errati""s Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling as it i"" Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as beguiling ""Vegas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as begu""egas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that is as""gas" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm that i""as" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm tha""s" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm t""" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm "" is far less dolorous than might be expected. Passionate and furiously alive it is brightened by the same unlikely bonhomie that has long kept Ben afloat. First seen gaily loading up a shopping cart at the liquor store Ben has a courtly charm " this appears to have been an ordinary day." who makes a long overdue return to the sultry intensity of his "Internal Affairs" and "Stormy Monday " "Leaving Las Vegas" has the daring to suspend judgment about Ben's downward spiral. This film simply works as a character study pitilessly well observed and intimately familiar with its terrain. Mr. Figgis based his screenplay on a novel by John O'Brien who committed suicide two weeks after learning that his book would be made into a movie. Mr. O'Brien's father describes the novel as his son's suicide note which does not seem a farfetched claim.""s directed by Mike Figgis who makes a long overdue return to the sultry intensity of his "Internal Affairs" and "Stormy Monday " "Leaving Las Vegas" has the daring to suspend judgment about Ben's downward spiral. This film simply works as a character study pitilessly well observed and intimately familiar with its terrain. Mr. Figgis based his screenplay on a novel by John O'Brien who committed suicide two weeks after learning that his book would be made into a movie. Mr. O'Brien's fa"" directed by Mike Figgis who makes a long overdue return to the sultry intensity of his "Internal Affairs" and "Stormy Monday " "Leaving Las Vegas" has the daring to suspend judgment about Ben's downward spiral. This film simply works as a character study pitilessly well observed and intimately familiar with its terrain. Mr. Figgis based his screenplay on a novel by John O'Brien who committed s""directed by Mike Figgis who makes a long overdue return to the sultry intensity of his "Internal Affairs" and "Stormy Monday " "Leaving Las Vegas" has the daring to suspend judgment about Ben's downward spiral. This film simply works as a character study pitilessly well observed and intimately familiar with""irected by Mike Figgis who makes a long overdue return to the sultry intensity of his "Internal Affairs" and "Stormy Monday " "Leaving Las Vegas" has the daring to suspend judgment about Ben's downward spiral. This film ""rected by Mike Figgis who makes a long overdue return to the sultry intensity of his "Internal Affairs" and "Stormy Monday " "Leavin""ected by Mike Figgis who makes a long overdue" following Ben through the last gasps of his career in Los Angeles. He turns obnoxious in a restaurant name-dropping about Dickie Gere and annoying the movie executives he meets. He tries to pick up a woman in a bar. ("You've been drinking all day " remarks the woman played by Valeria Golino. "But of course!" Ben replies.) He goes to a strip club gets so drunk he can barely see the dancers and takes home a prostitute who steals his wedding ring. He wakes up on his kitchen floor having passed out in front of an open refrigerator.""he film begins with an exceptional bender following Ben through the last gasps of his career in Los Angeles. He turns obnoxious in a restaurant name-dropping about Dickie Gere and annoying the movie executives he meets. He tries to pick up a woman in a bar. ("You've been drinking all day " remarks the woman played""e film begins with an exceptional bender following Ben " 
6574
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/13/movies/13two.html
there is something fresh and vivid about the way he uses them here. He is also a generous and sympathetic director of actors and he makes the most of Ms. Shaw’s grace Ms. Paltrow’s unpredictability and Mr. Phoenix’s odd intriguing blend of solemnity and mischief. Their performances go a long way toward preventing the movie from becoming overwrought or schematic." some sexuality and brief drug use." Gwyneth Paltrow (Michelle Rausch) Vinessa Shaw (Sandra Cohen) Moni Moshonov (Reuben Kraditor) Isabella Rossellini (Ruth Kraditor) and Elias Koteas (Ronald Blatt)." but he also wants to live a life of danger freedom and impulse. Does he stick with his own kind and risk suffocation or does he risk rootlessness in pursuit of liberation?" “Two Lovers” takes place in what often feels like an earlier incarnation of New York a world of lower-middle-class neighborhoods and workaday aspirations that is still very real but that seems less interesting to ambitious filmmakers and writers than it used to be. Leonard’s literary and cinematic kinsmen are guys like Ernest Borgnine’s lonely Bronx butcher in “Marty” and the libidinous insecure strivers who populate the early fiction of Philip Roth." but the feelings that run through it are large and intense. And why shouldn’t they be? The life of Leonard Kraditor might seem ordinary even drab — he lives with his parents works for his father’s dry-cleaning business dabbles in photography — but his desires and sorrows his fundamental confusion about who he should be certainly don’t feel trivial to him. Hardly a feckless youth Leonard is in his early 30s with a breakup and a breakdown (involving a suicide attempt) just behind him. Played with twitchy sensitivity by Joaquin Phoenix Leonard is by turns raw and benumbed at once comforted and smothered by the homey claustrophobia of life with his tactful old-world dad (Moni Moshonov) and his hovering anxious mother (Isabella Rossellini)." a description that might set visions of mumblecore dancing in your head. But this movie the director James Gray’s fourth feature (after “Little Odessa ” “The Yards” and “We Own the Night”) is not another low-key closely observed study in bohemian diffidence. It takes place in Brighton Beach many subway stops (and sociological light years) from the northwestern sections of the borough where the hipsters roam. And its palette of emotions like its rich and somber 35-millimeter cinematography departs from the hand-held hi-def discursive style associated with directors like Joe Swanberg and Aaron Katz harking back to an older artistically more conservative film tradition of lush earnest melodrama." a willowy blonde who turns up to Leonard’s amazement and his mother’s undisguised horror in their apartment building. Michelle is an exotic transplant in the outer-borough soil filling Leonard’s nose with the Manhattany perfume of sophistication and sexual adventure. She is also needy capricious and a little unstable which allows Leonard’s fantasy of escape to be twinned with a dream of rescue. Michelle is the mistress of a rich married lawyer (Elias Koteas) and she turns to Leonard as a brotherly confidant even as her vulnerability seems to offer the chance for something more." to some extent conform to the ancient archetypes identified by the literary critic Leslie Fiedler of the Good Good Girl and the Good Bad Girl. Vinessa Shaw plays Sandra the girl Leonard might have brought home to mother if mother hadn’t brought her home first. She’s the daughter of an important business associate of Leonard’s father and if she and Leonard paired off there would be advantages all around. Luckily for Leonard Sandra is also kind smart patient and very sexy." to tell the truth. But the flaws in “Two Lovers” are inseparable from its strengths. You could I suppose criticize the movie for being too sincere; too generous to its imperfect self-deluded characters; too absorbed in their small crises and disproportionate reactions. But that criticism might sound a lot like praise." Joaquin Baca-Asay; edited by John Axelrad; production designer Happy Massee; produced by Mr. Gray Anthony Katagas and Donna Gigliotti; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." with complications and misunderstandings accelerating toward a big decision. But while there are moments of humor — and a sublimely witty almost surreal performance from Ms. Rossellini — the overall mood is earnest and anguished. The picture’s basic conflict is one Mr. Gray has explored before: the tension between the individual spirit and the ways of the tribe. But previously the tribalism has been that of gangsters or cops and has been worked out through the violent rituals of the urban crime genre where sentimentality grows out of the barrel of a gun." 
6575
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/13/movies/13unde.html
Toni Myers and Graeme Ferguson; narrated by Jim Carrey; director of photography Mr. Hall; edited by Ms. Myers; music by Micky Erbe and Maribeth Solomon; produced by Ms. Myers and Michele Hall; released by Warner Brothers Pictures and Imax Corporation. Running time: 40 minutes. This film is rated G." aimed at an elementary-school-age audience is the third study of exotic marine life produced for Imax by the team (led by the director Howard Hall) behind “Deep Sea 3D” (2006) and “Into the Deep” (1994). But you don’t have to be a child to be awed by a luminescent world in which sea creatures adopt gorgeous camouflage to lie in wait for their prey or glide through the water accompanied by entourages of smaller fish that feed on tiny organisms attached to the bodies of their larger hosts." the film’s jaunty narrator tones down his usual hyperkinetic delivery to be a friendly tour guide. Anthropomorphic cuteness is kept to a minimum. The score uses only two pop songs: Doris Day’s recording of “Perhaps Perhaps Perhaps” to underscore a scene of fishy flirtation and the Beatles’ “Octopus’s Garden.”" hulking primeval monsters that remind you that it takes all kinds to make an ocean." ” a visually enthralling 40-minute tour of the southwestern Pacific depths. The journey begins at the Coral Triangle in Papua New Guinea then moves to Cape Catastrophe in South Australia and on to the Great Barrier Reef." but in a reassuring tone. Now that humanity has awakened to its dangers Mr. Carrey implies disaster can be averted." 
6576
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/13/movies/13thir.html
based on a story by Mr. Shannon Mr. Swift and Mark Wheaton and the original film by Sean Cunningham; director of photography Daniel C. Pearl; edited by Ken Blackwell; music by Steve Jablonsky; production designer Jeremy Conway; produced by Michael Bay Andrew Form Brad Fuller and Mr. Cunningham; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." which is just as well since even that dubious classic is a lousy movie. Directed by Marcus Nispel who gave us a monstrously cynical remake of “The Texas Chainsaw Massacre” a few years back “Friday the 13th” attempts to shake off a quarter-century of Jason-related silliness (“Friday the 13th Part VIII: Jason Takes Manhattan”). Set in the present-day with a story line that references the original’s mythology this movie attempts to reboot the concept if that’s the word of this undying series." very nasty things." Danielle Panabaker (Jenna) Aaron Yoo (Chewie) Amanda Righetti (Whitney) Travis Van Winkle (Trent) and Derek Mears (Jason Voorhees)." most people’s notion of entertainment doesn’t involve watching sexed-up beer-guzzling morons impaled decapitated or burnt alive. But there’s an itch for this kind of material and here it is scratched — to the bone." massacring its generic clutch of topless young girls and their inebriated boyfriends assembled at a lavish summer house around the way from Camp Crystal Lake with a gleeful sense of fun." ” the latest in a slasher-flick franchise that has spawned approximately 500 sequels including one that sent its villain a hockey-mask-wearing psycho named Jason into outer space to terrorize nubile astronauts." 
6577
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/13/movies/13inte.html
” in contrast is so undistinguished that the moments you remember best are those that you wish another more original director had tackled. In the hands of Brian De Palma for instance a tense showdown at the Guggenheim Museum in Manhattan might have turned into a fugue of architectural paranoia but Mr. Tykwer is content to turn Frank Lloyd Wright’s creamy spiral into a chaotic shooting gallery." during which all the interesting implications of the premise are abandoned in favor of laborious set pieces and howlingly bad dialogue. (The script is by Eric Warren Singer.)" pop-savvy globally minded young filmmakers. Since then he has drifted toward hackery without quite surrendering his initial promise. “Perfume ” his 2006 adaptation of Patrick Süskind’s novel might have been dreadful but it was not without style." a climactic foot chase through a Turkish bazaar needed the kind of breakneck precision Paul Greengrass brought to the last two “Bourne” movies. And when a cloud of bats suddenly took wing I wished they were pigeons and I wished for John Woo." just moody and unshaven while Whitman (that would be Ms. Watts) does not contradict herself except insofar as she looks weary and bedraggled as if alienated from her radiant golden self. There is no particular spark between them romantic or otherwise." pedestrian movie that caught my eye. During a pursuit through Midtown Manhattan the camera catches sight of the Chase Bank logo three times within a few seconds followed by a shot of a Citibank sign. Happenstance most likely. But brand labels rarely show up in commercial movies by accident and there is a certain logic behind the notion of actual banks’ soliciting placement in a movie about a fictitious one." but it’s also possible that the contrast between IBBC and its real-life counterparts may work to their benefit. After all it’s not as if they keep assassins on the payroll. As far as we know." while Salinger’s only companions are his rumpled raincoat and his surly temper. The seething and muttering that define Mr. Owen’s range these days occasionally erupt into something showier. At various moments under different kinds of stress Salinger smashes a telephone stomps on an audio recorder plunges his face into a basin full of ice water and smacks a dead man." or even a premonition of it. Instead what happens is that Clive Owen and Naomi Watts jet around Europe storming in and out of shiny buildings in pursuit of thin men with gray suits and Continental accents. Which is more or less what you expect from a movie with a dial-tone score punctuated by postcard-ready aerial shots of various cities each one helpfully labeled at the bottom right-hand corner of the screen: Lyon Milan Berlin Istanbul New York." heavy with platitudes contains an aphorism that may well sum up the political economy of the moment: “whoever controls the debt controls everything.” And there is a provocative whiff of radicalism in the title which after all evokes the anthem of the worldwide socialist movement. Arise you prisoners of starvation!" that is for Mr. Owen as    an Interpol operative and Ms. Watts as a lawyer in the Manhattan district attorney’s office who have the improbably literary surnames of Salinger and Whitman." the bank based in Luxembourg is able to buy off or intimidate any law enforcement officers who might investigate its crimes." Naomi Watts (Eleanor Whitman) Armin Mueller-Stahl (Wilhelm Wexler) Ulrich Thomsen (Jonas Skarssen) and Brian F. O’Byrne (the Consultant)." and “The International ” a sleek travelogue thriller directed by Tom Tykwer at least flirts with timeliness winking at an angry and anxious public mood. That multinational weapons manufacturers can be portrayed as more decent civic-minded and principled than global financiers surely says something about the state of the world." Frank Griebe; edited by Mathilde Bonnefoy; music by Mr. Tykwer Johnny Klimek and Reinhold Heil; production designer Uli Hanisch; produced by Charles Roven Richard Suckle and Lloyd Phillips; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes." 
6578
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/13/movies/13conf.html
Hugh Dancy (Luke Brandon) Krysten Ritter (Suze) Joan Cusack (Jane Bloomwood) John Goodman (Graham Bloomwood) John Lithgow (Edgar West) Kristin Scott Thomas (Alette Naylor) Fred Armisen (Ryan Koenig) Leslie Bibb (Alicia Billington) Lynn Redgrave (Drunken Lady at Ball) Julie Hagerty (Hayley) and Christine Ebersole (TV Show Host)." “Confessions of a Shopaholic” wants to eat its cake — or rather cling to its consumer-based culture — and have its spiritual redemption  too. (Talk about timing!) Based on a pair of popular novels by the British author Madeleine  Wickham writing  under the lucrative pen name Sophie Kinsella the story tracks the credit card ups and downs of an extreme shopper Rebecca Bloomwood (Isla Fisher) who just can’t say no to every bright bauble and designer doodad she sees. For her buying is something of a blood sport as well as a panacea for whatever — the movie is a bit bashful about saying what — ails her." they should make sure to tap both Ms. Fisher and Ms. Ritter for the inevitable sequel which while certainly improbable and probably inadvisable might inspire one of those Depression-era follies in which all a girl needed was a catchy song and gold-digger dreams." Tim Firth and Kayla Alpert based on the books “Confessions of a Shopaholic” and “Shopaholic Takes Manhattan ” by Sophie Kinsella; director of photography Jo Willems; edited by William Goldenberg; music by James Newton Howard; production designer Kristi Zea; produced by Jerry Bruckheimer; released by Touchstone Pictures/Jerry Bruckheimer Films. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." as if she were anxious to get to the next scene Ms. Fisher plays Rebecca as a lovable dingbat who’s not remotely as silly as her towering heels suggest. A fool for fashion though not for men Rebecca works as a journalist which might seem like another laughable Hollywood fantasy if her magazine didn’t fold soon after the story begins. Left without a steady paycheck and with terrifying credit card bills she lands a position at a financial magazine run by the swoony Luke Brandon (Hugh Dancy) who inexplicably gives her a dollars-and-sense column that becomes a hit with readers who clearly should have looked elsewhere for advice." “Confessions of a Shopaholic” largely registers as a classic story of female self-improvement. Though the final destination on this particular road to self-actualization  hasn’t much changed since the 18th century when Mary Shelley’s mother Mary Wollstonecraft raised an early feminist flag (women “must marry advantageously and to this object their time is sacrificed and their persons often legally prostituted”) “Confessions of a Shopaholic” paves the way with rather less contempt for its female characters than most recent so-called chick flicks. If nothing else the director P. J. Hogan actually seems to like Rebecca which is understandable given that she’s played by the professionally adorable Ms. Fisher." for the most part painlessly. Rebecca learns and laughs kisses and cries while wearing candy-colored sometimes unfortunately coordinated outfits. The appealing supporting  cast includes John Goodman and Joan Cusack as her parents and as her best friend Krysten Ritter whose pillowy lips and crack timing suggest that she might be moving into lead roles sometime soon." 
6579
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/13/movies/13call.html
woven sporadically (and enigmatically) throughout “The Caller ” involves Jimmy’s traumatic childhood in France during World War II when he and another boy found themselves alone in the Normandy woods ministering to a dying soldier. Back in the present Jimmy visits his ailing mother at an assisted-living center. Midway through the movie we are suddenly introduced to Jimmy’s girlfriend Eileen (Laura Harring) a morose nightclub singer with a precociously curious young daughter (Anabel Sosa)." Jimmy disguising his voice and calling himself John Doe hires the retired New York police detective Frank Turlotte (Elliott Gould) to follow him during his last two weeks. Frank unaware that the man who hired  him and the man he is following are the same person develops an uneasy friendship with Jimmy that culminates in a final rendezvous in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn. Talk about heavy-handed symbols: in one scene where they share a park bench both happen to be carrying copies of the same book Frances A. Yates’s “Art of Memory.”" the once-eminent novelist in “Starting Out in the Evening” who continues to write despite deteriorating health and his knowledge that his time has  passed." “The Caller ” directed by Richard Ledes from a screenplay he wrote based on a story by Alain Didier-Weill a French psychoanalyst and author aspires to be an existential puzzle with all the heavy baggage that implies. As actions are replaced by portentous disconnected symbols and new characters are belatedly shoehorned into the story the sins of EN  are forgotten and  the film turns into an impenetrable essay on guilt memory and the fear of death that even Mr. Langella’s gravity cannot salvage." ” a corporate crime drama that runs fatally amok Frank Langella plays Jimmy Stevens a world-weary senior executive and numbers cruncher who blows the whistle on his company’s fiscal corruption and then waits for the lethal consequences. The EN Corporation the evil energy enterprise for which he works has conducted dirty business in Latin America that has involved the killing of protesters. In its pure malevolence it resembles Ultima National Resources the environmental octopus poisoning West Virginia in this season’s “Damages.”" Elliott Gould (Turlotte) Laura Harring (Eileen) and Anabel Sosa (Lila)." who suggests a more decrepit version of his shambling Philip Marlowe in “The Long Goodbye ” is an avid bird watcher. And the movie is punctuated with loaded images of Frank’s latest avian obsession the peregrine falcon swooping through the Manhattan sky." based on a story by Alain Didier-Weill; director of photography Stephen Kazmierski; produced by Linda Moran and Rene Bastian; released by Belladonna Productions. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." ” Mr. Langella projects the tragic self-knowledge of an older man reassessing his life more acutely than any other actor today. As these characters contemplate the void every ounce of personal experience weighs heavily on their hunched shoulders and adds an extra bass note to their sad rumbling voices." Jimmy says “They wanted me to make it all up and they didn’t want to know that I was making it all up.” Those words might also describe the role of William Hurt’s energy consultant in “Damages ” not to mention the origins of our present-day banking crisis." 
6580
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/11/movies/11grea.html
edited and produced by Linas Phillips; director of photography Mr. Phillips; music by Lori Goldston and Tara Jane O’Neil. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." a gaunt stringy-haired drifter and intermittent drug user suffering from H.I.V. he contracted while in prison is Exhibit A in “Great Speeches From a Dying World ” Linas Phillips’s unsettling documentary portrait gallery of nine homeless people living on the streets of Seattle." it sticks. From his hospital bed Jose Martinez who has attempted suicide seven times delivers a slurred reading of Hamlet’s “To Be or Not to Be” soliloquy that makes you consider the self-destructive impulses in the lives of the unfortunate." the speaker (who may be reading from a teleprompter or reciting from memory; it isn’t clear which) doesn’t make a strong emotional connection to the material which includes Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address Jesus’ Sermon on the Mount and speeches by John F. and Robert F. Kennedy. At these times the premise feels like a stunt that has backfired." an African-American and crack addict who sleeps in a wheelchair in a parking garage." the movie carries an extra weight as newly unemployed workers face the possibility of landing on the street without a livelihood. Which of us in our worst nightmares hasn’t imagined a calamitous pile-up of personal disasters that could end in destitution and despair?" these women together ought to be able to turn it back ” you sense that Ms. Payne in different circumstances might once have been strong enough to lead the charge. She doesn’t ask for sympathy; of her addiction she says bluntly: “I was bored. I got tired of being clean and sober.”" who relates a personal tale of woe that begins when he was placed in juvenile detention after pleading guilty to second-degree murder for a crime that he said  he knew about but didn’t participate in. When he turned 16 he was sent to prison where he remained for 15 years. Years later he  landed a job that paid $60 000 a year but lost it after 9/11." Mr. Smith recites from the John Donne meditation that proclaims “No man is an island.” As we have already seen he has a tender protective relationship with Josie a transsexual crack addict and is an avid dog lover. Although Mr. Smith doesn’t lend Donne’s prose any special conviction the words still resonate with his situation." 
6581
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/movies/06cora.html
allowing the two realms to shadow and influence each other. Mr. Selick for his part is so wantonly inventive and so psychologically astute that even Coraline’s dull domestic reality is tinted with enchantment. Her neighbors are a collection of eccentrics whose physical peculiarities match their quirks of character. Upstairs there is a Russian circus artist with the rasping voice of Ian McShane while below a pair of aging burlesque performers twitter and chirp in the giddy tones of Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders queens of British TV comedy." but the point is not to make you duck or shriek. Instead Mr. Selick uses the technology to make his world deeper and more intriguing. And of course the stop-motion technique he uses based on sculptured figures rather than drawn images is already a kind of three-dimensional animation. The glasses you put on are thus not a gimmick but an aid to seeing what’s already there." which opens only at night leads Coraline to a parallel world that  at first seems to fulfill her sad heart’s every desire. The versions of her parents who live there — a queen-bee “other mother” and her agreeable mate — are warm and attentive and the pink house is a wild wonderland where gardens bloom in moonlight and every visit discloses new amusements. The oddball neighbors are there in  altered form to enthrall Coraline with nightly spectacles — a dream vaudeville that will transfix the movie’s audience as well." Teri Hatcher (Mother/Other Mother) Jennifer Saunders (Miss Spink) Dawn French (Miss Forcible) Keith David (Cat) John Hodgman (Father/Other Father) Robert Bailey Jr. (Wybie Lovat) and Ian McShane (Mr. Bobinsky)." Guillermo del Toro and David Lynch. Like those filmmakers Mr. Selick is interested in childhood not as a condition of sentimentalized passive innocence but rather as an active seething state of receptivity in which consciousness itself is a site of wondrous at times unbearable drama." horrifying operation — foreshadowed in the haunting opening title sequence —  unlocks a cellarful of psychological implications. It would be too simple to say that the door in the wall leads directly to the unconscious. Mr. Selick is hardly a doctrinaire Freudian but he does grasp the intimate connection between fairy tales and the murky occult power of longing existential confusion and misplaced desire. “Coraline” explores the predatory implications of parental love — that other mother is a monster of misplaced maternal instinct — but is grounded in the pluck and common sense of its heroine who is resilient ingenious and magically real." on the screen is almost too much to absorb in one sitting: costumed mice and Scottish terriers; glowing blossoms and giant insects. The “other” world Coraline explores is fascinating but also unsettling. Everyone there has buttons for eyes like homemade dolls and if she wants to stick around Coraline will have to become like them." these days often do a better job than movies of parceling out juvenile terror. There is plenty of grisly screen horror out there for teenagers of course but younger children are more amply served by fiction from the likes of R. L. Stine Roald Dahl and Neil Gaiman on whose fast-moving suspenseful novel “Coraline” is based. The film an exquisitely realized 3-D stop-motion animated feature directed and written by Henry Selick (“The Nightmare Before Christmas ” “James and the Giant Peach”) has a slower pace and a more contemplative tone than the novel. It is certainly exciting but rather than race through ever noisier set pieces toward a hectic climax in the manner of so much  animation aimed at kids “Coraline” lingers in an atmosphere that is creepy wonderfully strange and full of feeling." based on the book by Neil Gaiman; director of photography Pete Kozachik; edited by Christopher Murrie and Ronald Sanders; music by Bruno Coulais; production designer Mr. Selick; produced by Mr. Selick Bill Mechanic Claire Jennings and Mary Sandell; released by Focus Features. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." since the cultivation of fright can be one of the great pleasures of youthful moviegoing. As long as it doesn’t go too far toward violence or mortal dread a film that elicits a tingle of unease or a tremor of spookiness can be a tonic to sensibilities dulled by wholesome anodyne school-approved entertainments." at the beginning is loneliness. A smart brave girl named Coraline Jones voiced by Dakota Fanning has recently moved from Michigan to an apartment in a big pink Victorian house somewhere in Oregon. She is at an age when the inadequacy of her parents starts to become apparent and Coraline’s stressed-out self-absorbed mom and dad (Teri Hatcher and John Hodgman) who write about gardening barely look up from their computer screens when she’s in the room. And so like many a children’s book heroine before her Coraline sets out to explore her curious surroundings interweaving the odd details of everyday reality with the bright threads of imagination. She is accompanied  from time to time by a local boy (Robert Bailey Jr.) and a talking cat (Keith David)." 
6582
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/movies/06fanb.html
Christopher Marquette (Linus) Dan Fogler (Hutch) Jay Baruchel (Windows) and Kristen Bell (Zoe)." and Sam Huntington Christopher Marquette Dan Fogler and Jay Baruchel play friends in Ohio who haven’t been able to let go of their childhood obsession with “Star Wars.” The plot device of young men who refuse to mature has never felt more exhausted maybe because these actors or ones who look like them have already done this shtick in other movies." ” a road comedy about geeks on a “Star Wars”-related quest to satisfy hard-core fans of that George Lucas franchise. But the film doesn’t have the boosters or thrusters or whatever to elevate it to more ambitious heights; it’s weighed down by tired conventions and a general sense of having missed its moment." a trip to jail assorted attempts to get female motorists to flash their breasts. But the film does get laughs out of the boys’ hostile encounters with fans of that other space franchise “Star Trek ” and out of cameos by “Star Wars” alumni like Carrie Fisher." based on a story by Mr. Cline and Dan Pulick; director of photography Lukas Ettlin; edited by Seth Flaum; music by Mark Mothersbaugh; production designer Cory Lorenzen; produced by Dana Brunetti Kevin Spacey Matthew Perniciaro and Evan Astrowsky; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." and drive to California to steal a rough cut from Mr. Lucas’s ranch." 
6583
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/movies/06shor.html
” from Denmark —  are concise witty excursions into complicated contemporary realities. Both deal with the growing pains of multicultural Europe and they do so with more wryness than didacticism. Rather than teaching lessons in tolerance they show how tricky such lessons can be to teach or to learn." painterly meditation on climate change and the passage of time from Japan (“La Maison en Petits Cubes” by Kunio Kato). There is an immigrant’s story from Ireland (Steph Green’s “New Boy”) a lyrical elegy for a young woman (Elizabeth Marre and Olivier Pont’s “Manon on the Asphalt”) and a solemn study of guilt from Switzerland (Reto Caffi’s “On the Line.”)" it’s just possible that your breathless anticipation may be edged with fatigue. Since the beginning of the year a small number of Very Important Very Worthy films have vacuumed up all the oxygen in the movie universe. You may find yourself in need of a break from the manufactured hysteria surrounding The Curious Reader of Slumdog Milk/Nixon." Russia; “La Maison en Petits Cubes (House of Small Cubes)” by Kunio Kato Japan; “Oktapodi” from Gobelins l’École de l’Image France; “Presto” by Doug Sweetland United States; and “This Way Up” by Alan Smith and Adam Foulkes Britain. The live-action “Auf der Strecke (On the Line)” by Reto Caffi Switzerland and Germany; “Grisen (The Pig)” by Dorthe Warno Hogh Denmark; “Manon Sur le Bitumen (Manon on the Asphalt)” by Elizabeth Marre and Olivier Pont France; “New Boy” by Steph Green Ireland; and “Spielzeugland (Toyland)” by Jochen Alexander Freydank Germany. Released by Shorts International and Magnolia Pictures. Total running time: 2 hours 11 minutes. These films are not rated." to be sure: a sober Holocaust drama (“Toyland”) and a whimsical Pixar cartoon (“Presto ” which was shown as a short with “Wall-e ” the likely winner in the best-animated-feature sweepstakes).  Familiar though these are they are refreshed by appearing in a broad cosmopolitan context." the Oscar shorts offer a more accurate more complete glimpse of the state of cinema than the features. The shorts did not enter the world on a cushion of prestige or a vapor trail of hype and they offer concentrated doses of visual ingenuity and narrative discipline. Not all  are masterworks by any means but each at least rewards the modest investment of attention it demands." as would “New Boy ” based on a story by Roddy Doyle which has been well received at film festivals for the most part the only place where short films can be seen. Short fiction can still find its way into print and find readers but movies that run less than feature length lead a marginal existence serving as résumé builders for artists and programming filler for festivals." paradoxically enough in the program of Oscar-nominated short films that opens on Friday  in a few dozen theaters nationwide. It may seem odd to propose one batch of Oscar bait as the answer to another but the 10 contending short films —  five animated five live-action —  exhibit some virtues that their feature-length counterparts lack." when shorts were part of the movie house bill things were a little different and the Internet has the potential as yet only partially realized to connect filmmakers of modest means and ambitions with a curious time-pressed audience. So while the Oscar Shorts program may be a sideshow amid all the hoopla it’s also for those whose interest in film extends beyond the red carpet where the action is." ” from England and the French jeu d’esprit “Oktapodi” complete the field) employ various visual techniques traditional and newfangled but what they have in common is an almost complete lack of dialogue. They provide a reminder of how expressive how moving pictures can be. “Lavatory Lovestory ” an arrangement of black lines on a white screen with a few judicious touches of bright color is a charming little romantic poem perfect in its small proportions." though the entire slate can be viewed in less time than it takes Benjamin Button to age into boyhood. The Hollywood parochialism that habitually characterizes the best-picture field —   “Slumdog Millionaire” being a partial exception this year —  is refreshingly absent from the shorts. The nominees reflect the astonishing fact barely acknowledged during the Academy’s annual ceremony of self-worship that film is an international art form. The absurd rules and restrictions that govern the best-foreign-language film selections seem not to influence the selection of shorts which hail from all over the globe sometimes more than one to a country." 
6584
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/movies/06push.html
and everyone else gets bashed bloodied or badly bruised." Peter Sova; edited by Nicolas Trembasiewicz; music by Neil Davidge; production designer François Seguin; produced by Bruce Davey William Vince and Glenn Williamson; released by Summit Entertainment. Running time: 2 hours 1 minute." “Push” has a dizzying chaotic energy that pulls you along. Paul McGuigan directs with maximum efficiency and minimum use of computers creating effects that feel satisfyingly tangible. Trust me: when those Chinese brothers scream more than your ears will be bleeding." the proliferation of movie and television characters with special abilities is more than a little utopian. In “Push ” these abilities are rooted in Nazi experiments to transform people into biological weapons and the movie is crawling with clairvoyants mind controllers and human bloodhounds. As far as I can tell the only ability in short supply is acting." Dakota Fanning (Cassie Holmes) Camilla Belle (Kira Hudson) Cliff Curtis (Hook Waters) and Djimon Hounsou (Henry Carver)." as well as a Chinese gang fronted by two brothers whose screams can pop blood vessels. They’d have a hard time finding any in Kira (the insufferably bland Camilla Belle) a pallid waif whose allegiances are not clear." the plot can be described thus: Run. Hide. Fight. Repeat. Navigating a Hong Kong bristling with partially constructed skyscrapers a small band of good guys led by a telekinetic (Chris Evans) and a clairvoyant (Dakota Fanning) hunt for a mysterious suitcase." 
6585
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/movies/06pant.html
say the original Pennsylvania Station is replaced by a banal anonymous structure. The original “Pink Panther” movies I should hasten to add were hardly landmarks. Respectable comedies with a modicum of sophistication they were anchored by the presence of  Peter Sellers a comic genius whose every tic suggested an upheaval of subversive mischief." Michael H. Weber and Steve Martin based on a story by Mr. Neustadter and Mr. Weber and the “Pink Panther” films of Blake Edwards; director of photography Denis Crossan; edited by Julia Wong; music by Christophe Beck “Pink Panther” theme by Henry Mancini; production designer Rusty Smith; produced by Robert Simonds; released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer and Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." invariably rushed are all there is in “The Pink Panther 2 ” a movie whose remaining cast list — John Cleese (replacing Kevin Kline from the first installment) Lily Tomlin Jean Reno Emily Mortimer the Bollywood beauty Aishwarya Rai Bachchan —  suggests something a little more refined than this hodgepodge of juvenile pranks." he tramples on his partner’s feet. While ineptly sleuthing around in the mansion of a suspect (Jeremy Irons) he is unknowingly captured on surveillance cameras and ends up falling down a chimney. Exploring a rack of expensive wines in a snooty restaurant he nearly tips it over and the bottles sliding from their niches become pins in a mammoth juggling exhibition. He bungles at karate with the sons of his sidekick Ponton (Jean Reno). He goes haywire with a fire extinguisher." Jean Reno (Ponton) Alfred Molina (Pepperidge) Emily Mortimer (Nicole) Aishwarya Rai Bachchan (Sonia) Andy Garcia (Vicenzo) Yuki Matsuzaki (Kenji) Lily Tomlin (Mrs. Berenger) John Cleese (Dreyfus) and Jeremy Irons (Avellaneda)." Mrs. Berenger a spinoff of her Tasteful Lady represents the movie’s only attempt to be a comedy of manners. A police instructor on etiquette she tutors Clouseau whose every third sentence is a sexist or racist slur — as when she overhears him saying to his Japanese colleague “I suppose you will be wanting sushi my little yellow friend” —  on politically correct speech." Japan (Yuki Matsuzaki) and Italy (Andy Garcia) question the pope Clouseau rummages through a closet stuffed with papal vestments impulsively tries one on and rushes to the balcony overlooking St. Peter’s Square. Leaning forward to bestow a blessing he loses his footing tumbles head first from the balcony and clings to a flagpole robes flapping along with his arms and legs." ” the second installment of the beloved franchise since its resurrection three years ago with Steve Martin as the vainglorious bumbling French inspector Jacques Clouseau takes place at the Vatican. The pope has just had a priceless ruby ring snatched off his finger by a thief who has already stolen the Magna Carta the Japanese imperial sword and the Shroud of Turin. (Somewhere along the line the Pink Panther diamond a symbol of France is also pilfered once again.)" his Clouseau lacks the demonic glee Mr. Sellers put into a character who seemed to originate from the inside out. Mr. Martin’s Clouseau is a skillful gloss right down to the phony French accent which lacks the layers of oratorical pretension Mr. Sellers put into it. Why is it I wonder that any number of actors can play James Bond while Clouseau now and forever belongs to Mr. Sellers?" ” they are jammed together in a way that gives most of them barely enough time to register. The director Harald Zwart taking over from Shawn Levy has so little trust in his routines and in the audience’s attention span that none is allowed to develop into a belly-laughing classic." 
6586
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/movies/06lith.html
I’m uncertain if “Lithuania and the Collapse of the USSR” would have pulled me in so strongly if I were not familiar with Mr. Mekas’s work particularly that most overtly dedicated to his life as a displaced person. He and his brother the filmmaker Adolfas Mekas fled their Lithuanian home in 1944 spent time first in a German labor camp and then a displaced-persons camp eventually sailing up the Hudson River in 1949 on a ship named the General Howze. Jonas Mekas went on to be a major avant-garde filmmaker give us the Film-Makers’ Cooperative and Anthology Film Archives and become a national treasure. And years later he sat in his home and watched one world collapse as another began." as it were opens in 1989 and continues over the next few years unwinding in American news studios the streets of Lithuania — where Mr. Mekas was born in 1922  — and in the fast-imploding Soviet Union. Its stars are the last Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev; the new Lithuanian president Vytautas Landsbergis; and the  American president George H. W. Bush who as he navigated between Moscow and Vilnius was busy preparing for the Persian Gulf war. The supporting cast includes newscasters (David Brinkley) pundits (George F. Will) and the unseen Mr. Mekas whose presence is inscribed in every shaky image. Much as collagists have done since Braque and Picasso started cutting up daily papers Mr. Mekas is performing an aesthetic intervention here: he has appropriated found material in this case news reports shot off his home television to his own deeply personal ends. The results though far from visually beautiful (and here the analogy to Braque and Picasso ends) are nevertheless strangely almost perversely entrancing largely because the enterprise which at first seems unwatchable — this is after all nearly five hours of jumpy often blurry newscasts — becomes an increasingly gripping story of revolt courage and power. So watchable in fact that while I took in  “Lithuania” over several days (appropriately on my own home television) I not only watched all 286 minutes I also rewatched a few sections." Mr. Mekas; technical assistant Linda Burchill. At Anthology Film Archives 32-34 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Total running time: 4 hours 46 minutes shown in four parts. This film is not rated." the critic Amy Taubin in a hilarious review of a misbegotten movie from Abel Ferrara wrote that it “inspires the ontological question ‘What are films and why is this not one of them?’ ” The same question buzzed through my mind while watching the weirdly compelling if almost unclassifiable “Lithuania and the Collapse of the USSR ” the latest work from the filmmaker poet archivist and cinematic avenging angel Jonas Mekas.  “Lithuania ” I hasten to add is certainly not misbegotten — but given that this nearly five-hour work consists almost entirely of bits and pieces of news programs shot off a color television with a video camera it does inspire some aesthetic rumination." though it is worth noting that “Lithuania” was shot in video and will be shown in video. (A different version is being presented as a four-monitor video installation at the Maya Stendhal Gallery in Chelsea through Feb. 21 as part of an exhibition of Mr. Mekas’s latest work.) Increasing numbers of movies are actually videos or are digitally created — there is not a single film frame involved — crucial information that often goes unmentioned and even unnoticed in reviews. For artists like Mr. Mekas who has been shooting in video for years such distinctions seem irrelevant. The work counts whatever the format." 
6587
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/movies/06life.html
with its forced uplift and intimation of immobility “Life. Support. Music.” is a blessedly nimble journey from loss to reclamation." produced directed edited and narrated by Eric Daniel Metzgar; director of photography Mr. Metzgar; music by Eric Liebman; released by Merigold Moving Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 19 minutes. This film is not rated." the director Eric Daniel Metzgar studiously avoids any downbeat notes. We witness no meltdowns or angry outbursts (the film was the family’s idea) just selfless dedication to round-the-clock care." 34 had a near-fatal brain hemorrhage in 2004 doctors were pessimistic. Faced with the prospect of a vegetative husband his wife Monica — three months pregnant with their first child — refused to despair; assisted by an indefatigable extended family she set about the task of restoring his life." ” says Jason’s mother Carol exemplifying the movie’s tone of gung-ho determination. Behind all this attention the patient is a shy fragile figure difficult to connect to his pre-calamity glory. (“He was and is the go-to guy for a certain kind of music in New York ” says a fellow musician Teddy Thompson.) Mr. Crigler might have commanded a Lower East Side stage but this movie belongs to his family." 
6588
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/movies/06into.html
then comes marriage" I play a little game called What Would Thelma and Louise Do? Consider for instance the scene from “He’s Just Not That Into You” in which the perennially disappointed Gigi (Ginnifer Goodwin) says goodnight to her first-time last-time date a real estate agent Conor (Kevin Connolly). As she clings to his every diffident word her wide eyes shining and smile as fixed as that of the Joker Gigi comes across less like the bubbly young thing she’s meant to be and pretty much like a crazy person. She walks off and immediately calls a friend to say that the date went well. A few yards away Conor rings another woman." she might have bedded Conor with gusto (and no marriage plans) as she does a hitchhiker with miles of muscle played by the young Brad Pitt. (Her greatest lament: he rips her off.) And Louise? Given that her lover is played by the gruff and grown-up Michael Madsen I like to think she wouldn’t even have bothered with Conor. (That or shot him.) Adult women like Louise might pull a Mrs. Robinson on special occasions though not if there’s a man like Mr. Madsen steaming up the room. But adults have become something of an endangered species in big studio movies particularly in romantic comedies where female desire now largely seems reserved for shoes wedding bells and babies." Anna is also the only one in the distaff batch with an active seemingly pleasurable sex life. Most of the other women are too busy trying to land men trying to hold on to men or ruining their relationships with men to actually have sex. (Drew Barrymore meanwhile pops up a few times often surrounded by wisecracking gay men.) Imagine an action flick in which the hero spends the entire movie chasing the villain without the compensatory satisfaction of smashing his enemy to smithereens. There’s a reason action producers like Jerry Bruckheimer blow stuff up in their movies: They know what men want." there are a few nice moments most courtesy of Jennifer Connelly as the wife and Scarlett Johansson as the mistress of an understandably gaga lawyer Ben (Bradley Cooper) who doesn’t deserve either of them. Usually tightly wound even when she’s meant to be falling apart Ms. Connelly cuts loose and goes (relatively) dark with her character Janine. When she learns of her husband’s infidelity you can see the storm — the shock the hurt the confusion — gathering in her face. Even better you have no idea if Janine will break into pieces. Life has knocked her sideways and Ms. Connolly keeps the character there for a while inserting a bit of the unknown into the otherwise predictable proceedings." of course the designated bad girl — she’s also the woman Conor dials after his date with Gigi — but the role doesn’t stick. Ms. Johansson seems too comfortable in her own beautiful skin to pay attention to wagging fingers particularly when they belong to a twerp like Conor who delivers a late sermon about her commitment issues. One problem with the movie is that aside from Ben Affleck who plays Jennifer Aniston’s marriage-phobic boyfriend the actors are seriously outmatched by the actresses. Justin Long the guy from the Macintosh ads and Ms. Goodwin are a questionable-enough match. But Ms. Johansson and Mr. Connolly the second guy on the left in the HBO series “Entourage ” make no sense. She’s Scarlett Johansson for goodness’ sake!" ” directed by Ken Kwapis and written by Abby Kohn and Marc Silverstein takes this bit from a 30-minute show and turns it into an overextended 2  hours and 12 minutes. Mostly it does this by turning Gigi simultaneously into a joke (by playing her desperation for laughs) and a victim (by playing her desperation for tears). It’s a grotesque representation of female desire one that the appealing Ms. Goodwin can’t save from caricature. It says something about the romantic comedies coming out of Hollywood that the character Ms. Goodwin plays on the HBO series “Big Love ” the youngest wife in a polygamous Mormon marriage is treated with far more dignity than Gigi." what do women want? To judge by the recent crop of what are often sneeringly referred to as chick flicks today’s woman wants designer threads extravagant weddings and a generous helping of public humiliation served up with  laughs most at her expense. Where have you gone Thelma and Louise? Oh right: those gun-toting runaway heroines played by Geena Davis and Susan Sarandon who wore old blue jeans and confidently put the moves on the men in their lives in Ridley Scott’s 1991  outlaw female fantasy drove off the cliff at their big finish. You have been missed ladies." ” which is based on an obnoxious so-called advice book by Greg Behrendt and Liz Tuccillo which in turn took its inspiration from the HBO series “Sex and the City.” The book’s title refers to an episode in which Carrie’s man du jour Berger bluntly puts Miranda straight about a guy she’s dating. Miranda thinks she’s receiving mixed messages but men are just not that complicated Berger says. The guy simply isn’t interested." 
6589
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/movies/06choc.html
Hiroshi Abe (Masashi) Pongpat Wachirabangjon (Number 8) and Som Amara Siripong (Sin)." born to a humble Thai woman and a Japanese gangster exhibits behaviors that suggest autism or at least some poorly acted simulation of it: abnormal shyness primitive syntax rocking back and forth an extreme aversion to houseflies." Colo.; Austin and Dallas Tex.; Seattle;  and New York." ” which is a cheeky way to kick off a movie about a little girl with a gift very special indeed for kicking grown men in the face." “Chocolate” follows Zen as she collects on debts owed her ailing mother in order to pay for medical care. (You  hope her targets have paid up their own premiums.) All of which is pretext — barely  —  for a series of unexceptional brawls." based on a story by Mr. Pinkaew and Napalee; director of photography Decha Seemanta; edited by Rashane Limtrakul and Prapob Suraskulwat; music by Giant Ape; art director Nopporn Kirdsilpa; produced by Mr. Pinkaew Panna Rittikari and Sukanya Vongsthapat; released by Magnet Releasing. In Manhattan at the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street at Second Avenue Lower East Side. In Thai with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." she has been endowed with a natural mastery of the martial arts much of which she appears to absorb by watching “Ong-Bak: The Thai Warrior” on television. The director of that movie Prachya Pinkaew also happens to have made this one and if his ego has expanded in the interim his filmmaking chops have not." 
6590
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/04/movies/04memo.html
“Memorial Day” is the creation of Josh Fox the founder and artistic director of the International WOW Company an experimental theater troupe in New York. Needless to say his feature debut has more on its mind than simple gawking. What looks like a sloppy uninflected documentary reveals both a narrative of sorts and a pronounced agenda." members of Mr. Fox’s company soon emerge from the tumult as players in another drama predicated on delirium objectification and sexual humiliation. The movie inexplicably reinvents itself: cargo shorts and bikini tops are traded for army fatigues; the beach gives way to a war zone; personal debasement is channeled into the debasement of others. We have moved in short from spring break to Abu Ghraib." Harold Kennedy German (Harold) Neil Knox (Neil) Tess Mix (Tess) and Sarah Nedwek (Sarah)." drinking ranting and stripping on holiday at some unnamed beach resort. Shot in spastic digital video these mindless Dionysian antics suggest “Girls Gone Wild” outtakes  or the raw material for an incredulous anthropological study of American degeneracy." directed and edited by Josh Fox; director of photography Mr. Fox; music by Rachel’s and Andy Gillis; art director Nicolas Locke; produced by Hunter Gray Paul Mezey and Laura Wagner; released by Artists Public Domain and the International WOW Company. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. This film is not rated." but his manner of drawing them out is heavy-handed." 
6591
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/04/movies/04city.html
” says the restless painter Ghada Amer who responds to the repressive culture of her native Egypt with vast embroidered canvases celebrating nakedly intertwined female figures. Less erotic but equally confrontational are the arresting woodcuts of Swoon whose expressive full-size portraits of street people are cut laboriously from plywood on the floor of her tiny apartment." the women are encouraged to explore the pull of their adopted city and watching the Belgrade-born artist Marina Abramovic perform selections from her grueling gargantuan work “Seven Easy Pieces ” it’s difficult to imagine any space but the Guggenheim as hospitable." the director Chiara Clemente makes smooth transitions among styles mediums and personalities. Beatific sculptures by Kiki Smith give way to painted bloody phalluses by Nancy Spero." Theo Stanley; edited by Martin Levenstein; music by Thomas M. Lauderdale; produced by Ms. Clemente Tanya Selvaratnam and Bettina Sulser; released by First Run Features. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street South Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. This film is not rated." ” a lyrical documentary about the intersection of location and imagination." one of the movie’s liveliest sections follows the limber Ms. Abramovic (possibly the youngest-looking sexagenarian to exist outside of Hollywood) to Phuket Thailand to prepare for her post-tsunami piece “God Punishing.” If I can wield a bullwhip with that degree of enthusiasm when I’m 60 I’ll be a happy woman indeed." 
6592
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/movies/30mela.html
a 29-year-old director whose immersion in movie history is both ardent and understated is making a black version of a Joe Swanberg or Andrew Bujalski film or even to stretch the comparisons a bit further back a mash-up of “Before Sunrise” and “She’s Gotta Have  It.” But it wouldn’t be entirely inaccurate either because the tricky questions that govern “Medicine for Melancholy” are how why and to what extent race should matter in relationships between black men and women." a writer and fake reporter on “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart ” calibrates Micah’s vacillations between earnestness and guardedness perfectly. Ms. Heggins’s character is less developed. We know Jo’ is a cinephile currently unemployed and a transplant to the Bay Area but she never fully emerges as either a foil or a possible soul mate for Micah." a native San Franciscan is acutely aware of —  Jo’ might say obsessed with —  the demographic changes that have accompanied the city’s recent boom. He grieves over the attrition of the black population which he says has shrunk to only 7 percent and fears that gentrification will destroy his hometown’s free democratic spirit. In a quietly illuminating documentary digression he and Jo’ pause in their wandering to listen to a group of housing-rights activists." where they have awakened  together on the morning after a party. Both act shy and embarrassed and Jo’ seems in a particular hurry to put this brief encounter behind her. Micah though proposes breakfast and a shared cab ride home which Jo’ accepts more out of fatigue and some sense of post-coital decorum than out of genuine interest." and when Jo’ leaves her wallet in the taxi he tracks her down bicycling from his apartment in the  Tenderloin district of San Francisco to her place in the Marina." James Laxton; edited by Nat Sanders; produced by Justin Barber; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. This film is not rated." ” says Micah (Wyatt Cenac) half of the accidental kind-of couple whose one-day romance is chronicled in “Medicine for Melancholy.” He is making an observation — and also registering a complaint — about the quasi-bohemian way of life he shares with Jo’ (Tracey Heggins) his temporary other half. It bothers Micah that their embrace of the folkways of urban hipsterism seems to require the suppression of their African-American identity." occupied entirely with the day Jo’ and Micah spend together chatting flirting arguing and seeing the sights of San Francisco. But the city’s lovingly captured neighborhoods (shot by James Laxton in high-definition digital video from which all but the faintest hints of color have been drained) make the story as much a love triangle as a romance." which like its soundtrack is both sad and vibrant meandering and formally sure-footed. It is an exciting debut and a film that without exaggeration or false modesty finds interest and feeling in the world just as it is." ” he says and his ambivalence is both the theme of the movie and a crucial element of its curious ruminative attitudes toward love race and urban life." as much as the color of his skin distinguishes  him from other mumblecore characters who traipse through cool scruffy parts of various cities indifferent to the history that surrounds them and the social contradictions that ensnare them. Mr. Jenkins’s spirit is exploratory rather than didactic. Micah is neither a saint nor a mouthpiece but a young guy with sometimes confused motives and ideas. At first his race-conscious riffs sound to Jo’ and the audience like pick-up lines as if he were trying to guilt-trip her back into bed with him." which Jo’ doesn’t quite agree with also suggest a degree of self-awareness and self-questioning on the part of Barry Jenkins who wrote and directed this small incisive film. Most recent movies about culturally savvy affectless 20-somethings hooking up and being cool are very much tied to not being black. They are about diffident underemployed white boys and the women who (sometimes inexplicably) go to bed with them." 
6593
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/movies/30serb.html
sexual pantomime and one spectacularly erupted furuncle." a conceit that has been put to nostalgic and poetic use by the diverse likes of Giuseppe Tornatore (“Cinema Paradiso”) and Tsai Ming-liang (“Goodbye Dragon Inn”). He underlines the divide between the lives off screen and the shadows on screen every time a character lingers next to a colorfully gaudy poster for an attraction like “Frolic in the Water.” Yet the theater — incongruously named Family — functions as more than a metaphor for a crumbling world: it’s a business a home a playground and a refuge for the family and its gay clientele who are unlikely to join the religious masses passing by the theater in the movie’s finale." Jaclyn Jose (Nayda) Julio Diaz  (Lando) Coco Martin (Alan) Kristofer King (Ronald) Dan Alvaro (Jerome) Mercedes Cabral (Merly) and Roxanne Jordan (Jewel)." bawdy and at times rambunctiously ticklishly rude the Filipino movie “Serbis” opens with the camera ogling a naked woman preening before a mirror. “I love you ” she coos to her reflection “I love you ” as the camera’s point of view drifts between her face and breasts. In most movies this scene might foretell a predictable exercise in exploitation cinema. But the talented director Brillante Ma. Mendoza is after something slyer and more thoughtful than easy nudity for his latest a story about a dilapidated movie theater and the fractured family that is trying not to disintegrate further inside its derelict walls." Mr. Mendoza trains his roving camera on the family walking and running through the theater’s long halls and up and down its serpentine staircases. Among the most restless is Nayda (Jaclyn Jose) one of those besieged women whose good looks are being chipped away by everyday worries. Nayda doesn’t have much time to pause much less rest between chasing after her young son and tending to those customers who stop for a bite at the cafe next to the box office. Far less troublesome are the customers who venture inside where under the dimly flickering light of the movies they unite amid lip smacks moans offers of  “service” and mumbled haggling." which perhaps accounts for why it paradoxically unwinds in a movie theater. The heavenly bodies  that populate our films bring their own pleasures of course alighting on screen as if from a dream. The bodies  in this movie — which received little love at the 2008 Cannes Film Festival — are not heaven sent but neither are they puppets in a cinematically contrived nightmare. Rather they lust sweat desire and struggle with ferocious truth. In one scene a young man lances a boil on his rear with an empty bottle a grotesquely funny affirmation of real life and real bodies at their most humble and humanly poignant. You might gag but you definitely won’t forget it." the adults-only theater has fallen on hard times. Both are located in Angeles City where the massage parlors were once filled by American military personnel from the nearby now shuttered Clark Air Base one of the largest installations of its kind. Mr. Mendoza — whose earlier movies include “Foster Child ” about a poor woman who earns money caring for foundlings headed for overseas homes — doesn’t fill in the socioeconomic backdrop perhaps because his native audience doesn’t need it. Nor does he explain that abortion is illegal in his largely Roman Catholic country: he just offers up a pregnant woman bitterly weeping while her lover looks on in panic and the family’s regal matriarch (Gina Pareño) damns them both." based on a story by Mr. Lao and Boots Agbayani Pastor; director of photography Odyssey Flores; edited by Claire Villa-Real; music by Gian Gianan; production design Benjamin Padero and Carlo Tabije; produced by Ferdinand Lapuz; released by Regent Releasing. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. In Tagalog with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." 
6594
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/movies/30shad.html
Vesna Stanojevska (Menka) Sabina Ajrula-Tozija (Dr. Vera Perkova) Salaetin Bilal (Gerasim Pasoski) Ratka Radmanovic (Kalina) Filareta Atanasova (Gordana Perkova) Dime Iliev (Ignjat Perkov) Petar Mircevski (Blagojce)." you may snicker at the way hackneyed horror movie conventions are redeployed for more serious ends. But you won’t be bored. The movie is well acted (especially by Ms. Stanojevska) and very sexy. Fabio Cianchetti’s opulent cinematography skillfully uses reflections in mirrors and  windowpanes to give “Shadows” a surreal dimension." Lazar Perkov (Borce Nacev) a young Macedonian doctor who works in the same hospital as his mother nearly dies. Lazar (note the deliberate echo of Lazarus) is nicknamed Lucky not only for his narrow escape but also for his privileged existence. His wealthy parents have a villa in  Macedonia’s lake region; he is handsome (Mr. Nacev resembles the young Al Pacino) with a beautiful wife and a young son." Fabio Cianchetti; edited by David Ray and Martin Levenstein; music by Ryan Shore; production designer David Munns; produced by Mr. Manchevski Amedeo Pagani Corinna Mehner Nermin Gladers Martin Husmann Dimitar Gochev Gerardo Herrero and Mariela Besuievsky; released by Mitropoulos Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. In Macedonian with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 10 minutes. This film is not rated." a seductive young woman with severe bruises on her neck and arms who shamelessly throws herself at Lazar when he examines her injuries. He resists her but not for long. Menka who falsely claims to be the wife of a noted linguist whom Lazar consults while seeking to translate the old woman’s words explains what they mean: “Return what’s not yours — have respect.” But he has no idea how that dictum might apply to him since he has no recollection of having stolen anything." ” “The Others” and “Ghost ” embellished with abundant nudity and heavy-breathing sex. If the movies weren’t already inundated with stories of the undead this fusion of genres might not seem so unintentionally silly. But the history is too sketchy to resonate. We hear of atrocities that were committed but not who committed them why or when." materializing suddenly then disappearing only to return. Another persistent stalker is a scowling craggy-faced neighbor (Salaetin Bilal) who carries a little boy in his arms and leaves bloody tracks  as he wearily trudges up the stairs." Mr. Manchevski who won international acclaim with his 1994 film “Before the Rain ” declares that  “Shadows” imagines “what would happen if Lady Macbeth had lived today and survived to have a grown-up son who might try to come to terms with her overbearing presence and her transgressions of the past.”" a famous doctor and the imperious stand-in for Shakespeare’s dragon lady is only a minor character. And her crimes when revealed are not as horrifying as you are led to expect." ” “Heaven Can Wait” and a hundred other movies in which passion beckons from beyond the grave." while his wife and son are on vacation Lazar comes home from work to discover a wizened crone (Ratka Radmanovic) cleaning his kitchen floor. Speaking in a dialect he cannot understand she reaches up to touch his face; he panics and ejects her from the house. Gazing anxiously out the window he sees her on the street intently peering up at his apartment a wolf by her side." “Shadows ” is an unwieldy hybrid of historical allegory and supernatural mystery. The historical part deals with suppressed memories of the little-known  persecution of Aegean Macedonians in the early  20th century. In this Balkan fusion of “Hamlet” and “Macbeth ” the spirits of persecuted victims return to haunt the living and demand a proper burial." 
6595
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/movies/30unin.html
” the creepy Korean horror film of which it is supposedly a remake." nearly any random minute of “The Uninvited” (and there are only 87 of them) could serve as just such an advertisement. The movie doesn’t look bad. It includes some picturesque shots of a handsomely rugged coastline and elegant camerawork that would be more effective if the Guards did not shamelessly telegraph every jolt and scare with obvious close-ups low-angle shots and premature sound cues. Don’t open that garbage can! Don’t look under that stove! Don’t fall in that grave!" ” his companion said “I need to see a commercial for a better movie.”" derisive banter — the kind of thing that would ordinarily drive me mad with rage but that in this case saved me a bit of work. Just at the moment when the kindly local sheriff left the heroine alone in a dark room assuring her that no one else would get hurt — spoiler alert! he was wrong! — one fellow asked his friend: “Is this a commercial break? Because I need to go to the bathroom.”" which is more or less what it is. But when you stop to think about it the title is actually a clue to the picture’s lameness. Words beginning with “un” do have a certain scary resonance — intimations of the unknown the undead the uncontrollable and the unholy — but “uninvited”? As in “not on the guest list”? Only in Hollywood could such a notion be a source of terror." Elizabeth Banks (Rachel) Arielle Kebbel (Alex) and David Strathairn (Steven)." I wished that the title had referred to me. But invited I was along with a few hundred other restless souls for whose company on a wintry Tuesday night I was profoundly grateful." I-see-dead-people ghost story? The tale of a teenage girl whose quasi-supernatural gifts are obvious metaphors for sexual anxiety? A serial-killer-in-the-house thriller in the tradition of “The Hand That Rocks the Cradle”?" all of those though to specify in what order might give away the ridiculous climactic plot twist. And if I did that I might never get another invitation." Doug Miro and Carlo Bernard based on Kim Jee-woon’s film “A Tale of Two Sisters” (“Changhwa Hongryon”);  director of photography Daniel Landin; edited by Christian Wagner and Jim Page; music by Christopher Young; production designer Andrew Menzies; produced by Walter F. Parkes Laurie MacDonald and Roy Lee; released by DreamWorks/Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes." and also Elizabeth Banks gamely exploring the evil-stepmom potential latent in her fresh-faced charm. Emily Browning and Arielle Kebbel play two sisters one spooky (that’s Anna played by Ms. Browning) one wild (Alex Ms. Kebbel) who fret and bicker and shriek and occasionally walk around in bathing suits." 
6596
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/movies/30town.html
” Renée Zellweger plays Lucy Hill a shark in spike heels who wields pretentious corporate jargon like a machete. An aspiring master of the universe who works at the Miami headquarters of a food-processing giant Lucy is dispatched to an underperforming branch in New Ulm Minn. to oversee slash-and-burn operations. After a few minutes of listening to her running off at the mouth you may never again want to hear “dialogue” used as a verb." all-forgiving Ted whom  Lucy has repeatedly insulted comes to her rescue after she swerves into a snowdrift to avoid hitting a cow. During a crow-hunting expedition  she accidentally shoots him in the buttocks and the next day the smirking workers show up  at the plant wearing targets on their backsides. That’s about as witty as “New  in Town” gets." Blanche Gunderson (Siobhan Fallon Hogan) acts as though she had been instructed to exponentially multiply the mannerisms of Frances McDormand’s police officer in “Fargo.”  Playing Stu Kopenhafer the plant manager whom Lucy summarily fires J. K. Simmons —  outfitted in what appears to be a modified fat suit —  struggles to maintain some dignity." Harry Connick Jr. (Ted Mitchell) J. K. Simmons (Stu Kopenhafer) Siobhan Fallon Hogan (Blanche Gunderson) and Frances Conroy (Trudy Van Uuden)." including the hunky local union representative Ted Mitchell (Harry Connick Jr.) will have none of her highfalutin double talk. In the movie directed by Jonas Elmer from a screenplay by Kenneth Rance and C. Jay Cox they thaw her frozen heart with tapioca home baking and handmade valentines. As she warms to Ted a bearded widower with a 13-year-old daughter she even loses her contempt for men who drink beer." for her part brings a little Miami sophistication to New Ulm. She supervises a makeover for Ted’s daughter on the eve of a school dance. Just as the plant is about to be closed she comes up with an emergency rescue plan that involves Blanche’s secret recipe for tapioca. The movie doesn’t bother to show how the plan is executed in record time." Chris Seager; edited by Troy Takiki; music by John Swihart; production designer Dan Davis; produced by Paul Brooks Darryl Taja Tracey Edmonds and Peter Safran; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." number-crunching city slicker regains her humanity when faced with decent hard-working everyday folks in the provinces? But “New In Town” has no idea of  how to play its cards. From their regional accents to their cutesy-poo vocabulary (lots of okey-dokeys) the Minnesotans whom Lucy encounters are ludicrous parodies of the characters in “Fargo.”  You feel as if you are watching creatures more exotic than Snow White’s seven dwarfs." you have to wonder what happened to this formerly charming actress who not so long ago seemed on the verge of becoming a softer more vulnerable  Shirley MacLaine. As a corporate climber her edge is all in her clacking heels not in her bland performance. She is equally unconvincing as a cozy born-again everyday person with a sense of community responsibility. And where is her most appealing mannerism her dimpled smile? In a performance that operates as if on automatic pilot it has faded away." 
6597
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/movies/30take.html
a virginal Los Angeles teenager — the first of many dubious plot points — who has been snatched while vacationing in Paris by hairy and scary Albanians who put her on the auction block. The movie was produced by the international hitmaker Luc Besson who is best known for bankrolling action fare like the “Transporter” series and who shares writing credit on this exploitative throwaway with Robert Mark Kamen." which opens in Los Angeles perks up once it moves to the more dangerous environs of Paris where legions of predators prowl for salable young things. By chance or rather because of the shamelessly lazy filmmaking Kim is on the phone with Bryan when the wolves break down her door which allows him to tell off her kidnappers: “I will find you. And I will kill you.” He makes good on both promises and in a repellent scene he also tortures and electrocutes one of the bad guys employing techniques he mastered while in the C.I.A. Swarthy Europeans and Arabs may still be the villains du jour at the movies but the Americans including those with inexplicable Irish accents are alas catching up." who made his reputation in the 1980s directing entertainments like “Subway ” was a central figure in a French movement called the cinéma du look work that emphasized slick visuals avoided ideology and politics and paid closer heed to spectacle than to narrative. Although Mr. Besson now casts a wider net as a producer — he went somewhat upscale with the recent art house thriller “Tell No One” —  the genre movies that carry his brand tend to be predictably homogeneous with more or less the same look (glossy) sound (blaring) and pace (relentless). That more or less  describes “Taken ” as well as innumerable action flicks from Hollywood to Hong Kong of course though this digitally dreary-looking movie also gleefully trades on the specter of American vigilante justice." courtesy of knives fists electricity and guns of various calibers." who kept bodies and scenes jumping in the superior “District B13 ” another Besson factory production “Taken” starts in low gear and almost immediately stalls out. Mr. Neeson’s character Bryan Mills a former operative for the Central Intelligence Agency (he calls himself a “preventer”) has hung up his black bag to repair his relationship with his long-neglected daughter Kim (Maggie Grace). It’s a tough road for Bryan particularly since he has to compete with Kim’s bitter mother (Famke Janssen in a thankless role) and wealthy stepfather (Xander Berkeley). Happily for Bryan nothing brings an estranged daughter back into the patriarchal fold faster than the threat of being served up like a bonbon to a salivating knife-wielding sheik from the Republic of Cinematic Stereotypes." Maggie Grace (Kim) Leland Orser (Sam) Jon Gries (Casey) David Warshofsky (Bernie) Katie Cassidy (Amanda) Holly Valance (Sheerah) Xander Berkeley (Stuart) and Famke Janssen (Lenore)." Michel Abramowicz; edited by Frederic Thoraval; music by Nathaniel Mechaly; production designer Hugues Tissandier; produced by Mr. Besson; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." 
6598
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/movies/30betw.html
Jon Fordham; edited by Christina Kelly; music by Scott Starrett; production designer Jana Mattioli; produced by Mr. Andreas and Markus Goetze; released by Embrem Entertainment. At the Chelsea Cinemas 260 West 23rd Street. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." a pair of East Village transplants with 2 percent body fat zero personality and even less chemistry." the movie opens with a frolic as Marcel a French citizen marries a grumpy lesbian named Sarah (Jane Elliott) in order to permanently settle in New York. Marcel and Kyle move in together and promptly get naked and roll around thereby consummating their pseudomarriage and the inevitable soft-core titillations of the cute-gay-boy-indie-melodrama." Kyle’s troubled transgendered sister for a spell of couch-crashing that goes on for months with disastrous consequences for the men." “Between Love & Goodbye” is viciously almost hysterically committed to the fracturing and collapse of Marcel and Kyle’s love affair. Acrimonious in the extreme the second half of the picture suggests a gay low-budget “War of the Roses ” minus the mordant wit." Justin Tensen (Marcel) Rob Harmon (April/Cole) Jane Elliott (Sarah) Aaron Michael Davies (Danny) and Caroline Delran (Catherine)." mean-spirited home wrecker. I’m sure it isn’t easy to have your homeless transgendered ex-prostitute sister impose herself on your bohemian domestic bliss but would it have been so hard to make everyone involved a little less schematic?" 
6599
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/28/movies/28tact.html
the writer and director Emily Hubley transforms a conventional drama of loss and healing into an experimental jaunt through a surreal weekend in New York. Central to the experiment is Mona Peek (Lily Rabe) a young woman in delayed mourning over her father’s death. Gate-crashing Mona’s wistful daddy-and-daughter-at-the-beach memories is a quintet of cartoon creatures (drawn by Ms. Hubley and Jeremiah Dickey) who comment on her emotional progress in well-known voices (including those of Eli Wallach and David Cross). If this is grief counseling Mona’s future does not look bright." “The Toe Tactic” will make you gurgle with delight or groan with exasperation." David Cross (Timmy) Andrea Martin (Honey) Marian Seldes (Eunice) and Eli Wallach (Maestro)." befriends a lonely single mother (Sakina Jaffrey) and dates the gentle Elevator Man (Daniel London) the filmmaker presents a Manhattan populated with the lost and searching. It’s also populated with familiar faces including John Sayles as Mona’s landlord Mary Kay Place (currently ruling the proliferating roost of HBO’s “Big Love”) as her mother and Jane Lynch as a malicious open-mike performer. Add the drifting music of Yo La Tengo and you have a saccharine-sweet intermittently irritating fable about the salve of creativity. Or something like that." Kevin Corrigan (Hector Freegood) Sakina Jaffrey (Lactitia Utt) Daniel London (Elevator Man) Jane Lynch (Honey/Strumpet) Sean J. Moran (Wilson Utt) Novella Nelson (Victoria Hadaway) Mary Kay Place (Amelia Peek) Lily Rabe (Mona Peek) and John Sayles (Mr. Cramden)." Andrij Parekh; animated by Ms. Hubley and Jeremiah Dickey; edited by Ray Hubley; music by Yo La Tengo; produced by Ms. Hubley and Jennifer Small; released by Orchard Pictures and the Museum of Modern Art. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art 11 West 53rd Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6600
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/28/movies/28bles.html
Joan Allen (Catherine Senesh)" Ms. Senesh’s former cellmates and fellow kibbutz members hint intriguingly at an aloof lonely young woman whose poem “Blessed Is the Match” suggests a hyper-idealized view of her  destiny." ”  a fellow parachutist says dryly. But the director ignores this and every opportunity to excavate the heroine from the heroism opting instead for a tribute that leaves Ms. Senesh ’s personality as vague in the final frame as in the first." Dyanna Taylor; edited by Blake West; music by Todd Boekelheide; production designer Frank Gampel; produced by Ms. Grossman and Lisa Thomas; released by Balcony Releasing. At the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." Joan Allen droningly narrates from the writings of Ms. Senesh’s mother Catherine (who appears briefly in a clip from a 1981 interview)." archival film and tasteful re-enactments Roberta Grossman’s “Blessed Is the Match: The Life and Death of Hannah Senesh” documents courage but steers clear of character." she joined a 1944 mission to rescue European Jews but was captured and executed for treason. Despite weeks of imprisonment and torture by the Hungarian Arrow Cross Party Ms. Senesh  never revealed the radio codes entrusted to her by the British." Ms. Senesh a poet and diarist from an early age embraced Zionism at the age of 17 and immigrated to British-controlled Palestine." 
6601
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/23/movies/23drea.html
a solid hard-working actor with scores of roles on his résumé inflects Jones’s crisp authoritative martial gestures with hints of inner complication. Trying to assess the delicacies of the situation on the ground in Capalnita — even as he tries to force or coax his way out — he walks a fine line between hero and clown. He may be the new sheriff in town or else just another player in the circus passing through." closely observed comedy of cultural collision its satirical gaze aimed at Romania’s foibles and also at the sometimes lethal absurdities of geopolitics. A crucial decade younger than the other filmmakers associated with Romanian cinema’s recent renaissance Mr. Nemescu 26 at the time of his death did not share their penchant for long takes and stripped-down realism. Compared with Cristi Puiu’s “Death of Mr. Lazarescu” and Cristian Mungiu’s “4 Months 3 Weeks and 2 Days” (to limit the field to Cannes prize-winners by directors with nearly identical first names) “California Dreamin’ ” filters its local concerns through a restless pop sensibility." Liviu Marghidan;edited by Catalin Cristutiu; productiondesigner Ioana Corciova; produced byAndrei Boncea; released by IFC Films. Atthe IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. InRomanian English Spanish and Italian with English subtitles. Running time: 2hours 35 minutes. This film is not rated.WITH: Armand Assante (Capt. DougJones) Jamie Elman (Sgt. David McLaren) Razvan Vasilescu (Doiaru) MariaDinulescu (Monica) Alex Margineanu(Andrei) and Ion Sapdaru (the mayor)." and the cause of it is Doiaru (Razvan Vasilescu) the village’s bitter semicriminal stationmaster who lives above the depot with his daughter Monica (Maria Dinulescu). Like most of the women in town Monica regards the arrival of the Americans as an occasion for sexual adventure and possible escape." so powerful and confident so attractive and so clueless are regarded with ambivalence by the Romanians (including the director) whose self-image combines a sense of grievance with a certain stiff-necked pride. They live in a small country that has often found itself in the path of imperial powers a condition they address with guile stubbornness and a measure of grace. And lately with some pretty great movies." opportunistic mayor (Ion Sapdaru) the local young men stand around looking glum while their girlfriends flirt and dance with the foreigners. Monica is drawn to Sergeant McLaren (Jamie Elman) Jones’s second in command and though they have no language in common their first touch produces a literal electric shock. The eventual consummation of their attraction causes a blackout and several explosions." he finds himself in the autumn of 1999 stuck in a Romanian backwater called Capalnita. Charged with the apparently simple task of delivering some non-lethal equipment by train to NATO forces dealing with the situation in Kosovo Jones stumbles into a Balkan world of bureaucratic intransigence corruption and local feuding. A square-jawed by-the-book kind of warrior who keeps whatever sense of humor he might have on lockdown he struggles to understand why he must spend five days languishing in a place he describes as lost “in the fold of some map.”" which is to say in an unfinished (or as the title parenthetically suggests “endless”) state. Had he lived Mr. Nemescu would probably have trimmed and tightened the movie which at more than two and a half hours runs a bit long for the scope of its story. But loose-jointed though it is it is never boring. It rambles a bit but it always has something interesting to say." I think to American audiences. Given everything that has happened since the Kosovo intervention of 1999 may not seem like a terribly relevant or significant moment in history. But viewed through the lens of the Iraq war — which was surely on Mr. Nemescu’s mind in 2006 — this odd little Clinton-era anecdote takes on some unsettling resonances." who plays Jones giving the performance of his career in a modest Romanian movie: “California Dreamin’ ” the first and only feature directed by Cristian Nemescu a phenomenally talented young filmmaker who died in a car accident shortly after completing it." but they are addressed with a playful exuberance that suggests a young man’s unbridled delight in every aspect of filmmaking a spirit that also infuses Mr. Nemescu’s wonderful short films “C Block Story” and “Marilena From P7.” His nascent style was eclectic and sometimes chaotic but “California Dreamin’ ” shows his ability to direct actors in two languages and to execute set pieces — from McClaren and Monica’s intimate moments to the farce of the mayor’s big shindig — with precision and panache." as Americans so often do with high ideals and good intentions greeting the people of Capalnita with a sincere respect that contains more than a hint of condescension. The villagers are mired in their own problems — a power struggle between Doiaru and the mayor and a simmering confrontation between the stationmaster and workers in a factory he wants to buy to say nothing of the romantic agonies of the town’s young people — which the Americans can neither ignore nor solve." 
6602
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/24/movies/24unde.html
a dark castle bathed in moon-blue light and dappled with pools of black shadow the film offers few surprises other than Mr. Sheen’s vigorous physical performance. Although the presence of Mr. Sheen — who  currently can be seen twinkling as David Frost in “Frost/Nixon” and is probably best known for playing Prime Minister Tony Blair in “The Queen” — is initially distracting it soon becomes the movie’s greatest asset. There is as it turns out some benefit to having a real performance even in a formulaic entertainment like this as shown by Mr. Sheen’s commitment here and by the lackluster star turn of Kate Beckinsale in the  previous movies." Dirk Blackman and Howard McCain based on a story by Len Wiseman Robert Orr and Mr. McBride and characters created by Kevin Grevioux Mr. Wiseman and Mr. McBride; director of photography Ross Emery; edited by Peter Amundson; music by Paul Haslinger; production designer Dan Hennah; creature design by Mr. Tatopoulos; produced by Tom Rosenberg Gary Lucchesi Mr. Wiseman and Richard Wright; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." the British actor Michael Sheen takes a lively break from his usual high-crust duties to bring wit actual acting and some unexpected musculature to the goth-horror flick “Underworld: Rise of the Lycans.” The  film a prehistory to the first two “Underworld” movies rewinds time to when the werewolves or Lycans led by Lucian (Mr. Sheen) began rattling the chains clamped on them by their vampire masters a louche crowd that answers  to Viktor (the British actor  Bill Nighy)." who puts an amusing camp spin on his every line and gesture Mr. Sheen appears to have taken his monster duties seriously: his eyes pop with menace and he howls up a mighty storm. Though the director Patrick Tatopoulos clearly likes the looks of the female lead Rhona Mitra as Sonja Viktor’s daughter and Lucian’s lover he gives Mr. Sheen plenty of face time. The actor’s value is particularly evident during the various fight sequences which — because they are underlighted and as is too often the case in contemporary genre cinema overedited —  come across as needlessly chaotic. It’s at moments like these that Mr. Sheen’s bright eyes become beacons two points of light in the murky dark." Bill Nighy (Viktor) Rhona Mitra (Sonja) Steven Mackintosh (Tannis) and Kevin Grevioux (Raze)." 
6603
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/23/movies/23donk.html
titillating portrait of bored vacationing Britons at play in Mallorca. Lisa (Sian Breckin) the blondest and wildest of the women; Kim (Jamie Winstone) who is ready and willing; and Tammi (Nichola Burley) the most reluctant sybarite are from Leeds. Their dates —  suave cold Marcus (Jay Taylor); boyish Josh (Julian Morris); and the roughneck Bluey (Tom Burke) —  who invite them onto a borrowed yacht are Londoners. Because of their heavy northern England accents the women’s conversation is so hard to decipher that you long for subtitles." and a videocassette of the orgy changes hands the movie becomes a battle of the sexes raging  tooth and nail using every available weapon even a distress flare. Guns appear." ” the debut film of Olly Blackburn belongs to the teenage horror genre in which pleasure is brutally punished by an avenging supernatural force picking off victims one by one. But the characters in “Donkey Punch” are not teenagers and there is no transcendent agent of evil; the enemy is within." a self-proclaimed sex addict who tells the story of the donkey punch and then tries to restart the orgy even after the fatal accident gets the worst of it." then the agony: in the nasty British horror thriller “Donkey Punch ” the ecstasy is a pleasure pill nicknamed E augmented by Champagne and something called Russian ice. The agony is the grisly cosmic payback to naughty boys and girls whose drug-fueled orgy aboard a luxury yacht is interrupted by an act of terminal sex. A young woman in the throes of passion accidentally dies from a donkey punch a potentially lethal erotic stunt involving a blow to the back of the neck that is supposed to intensify the peak experience." Sian Breckin (Lisa) Tom Burke (Bluey) Nichola Burley (Tammi) Julian Morris (Josh) Jay Taylor (Marcus) and Jamie Winstone (Kim)." Nanu Segal; edited by Kate Evans; music by François-Eudes Chanfrault; production designer Delarey Wagener; produced by Angus Lamont Robin Gutch and Mark Herbert; released by Magnet Releasing. In Manhattan at Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie remains above the typical splatter ’n’ scream fest. These careless hedonists are convincing and the ensemble acting feels believable; the orgy looks very real. But the realism turns to caricature once the panicked party monsters begin  viciously turning on one another. The boys terrified that their futures are ruined hurriedly decide to bury the victim’s body at sea and invent a cover story; the two female survivors resist playing along." 
6604
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/23/movies/23lodg.html
Hope Davis (Ellen) Shane West (Street) Simon Baker (Malcolm) Rachael Leigh Cook (Amanda) Donal Logue (Bunting) and Philip Baker Hall (Captain Smith)." Mr. Ondaatje  stuffs the screen with scudding clouds speeded-up traffic and inexplicable lapses into black and white. And though the story jolts to life two-thirds of the way in its director barely notices: he’s much too busy clinging to an imperiled hooker’s swaying behind." Chandler Manning (Alfred Molina) and his rookie sidekick Street (Shane West). When not distracted by Street’s playful sweater vests Chandler is obsessively Googling Ripper Web sites and paying awkward visits to his institutionalized wife who invariably greets him with high-pitched hysteria." ” a spooky story ruined by lumpen dialogue cloddish performances and a director and writer (David Ondaatje) oblivious to both." bloodless speeches and spiritless acting." based on the novel by Marie Belloc Lowndes; director of photography David A. Armstrong; edited by William Flicker; music by John Frizzell; production designer Franco-Giacomo Carbone; produced by Michael Mailer and Mr. Ondaatje; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." a high-strung housewife who transforms herself from Phyllis Diller to Veronica Lake to serve breakfast to her creamy-voiced lodger (Simon Baker none creamier). “I must have complete quiet and privacy ” he croons gently. “I write.”" 
6605
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/23/movies/23inkh.html
based on the novel by Cornelia Funke; director of photography Roger Pratt; edited by Martin Walsh; music by Javier Navarrete; production designer John Beard; produced by Mr. Softley Ms. Funke and Diana Pokorny; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." ”  the immortal Woody Allen sketch in which the title character pursues an affair across fictional Yonville and actual Manhattan with Emma Bovary. But while “Inkheart” alludes to a few classic works like “Little Red Riding Hood ” “The Wizard of Oz” and “Huckleberry Finn ” it is mainly concerned with characters who escape from a novel called “Inkheart.”" ” directed by Iain Softley (“K-PAX ” “The Wings of the Dove”) from a script by David Lindsay-Abaire aims for a blend of whimsy and tingly suspense but botches nearly every spell it tries to cast. Its opening scenes are more confusing than intriguing and the acceleration of the plot leads to a sense of busyness rather than suspense. A movie that can produce the image of Helen Mirren astride a unicorn has some claim on the audience’s interest and a movie that can make that image seem perfectly uninteresting is in some serious trouble." thinly imagined world of  “Inkheart” as a silvertongue and the film anchored as it is in the juvenile fantasy genre refrains from exploring some interesting implications of his unusual ability. Is it limited to children’s literature? Does it apply equally to cookbooks erotica and the daily newspaper?" Fenoglio (Jim Broadbent) complains that it has gone out of print and all but vanished into obscurity and frankly it’s not hard to see why. Though its full plot remains elusive the “Inkheart” within “Inkheart” seems like a hodgepodge of ersatz medievalism dressed up with dreary magic." a fellow named Capricorn (Andy Serkis) who occupies himself in the modern nonfictional world by playing Mussolini in a picturesque Italian hill town surrounded by minions who have also crawled out of Fenoglio’s pages. There is also a fire juggler named Dustfinger (Paul Bettany) who is eventually outfitted with two sidekicks one a ferret and the other a minor character from “The Arabian Nights.”" reclusive bibliomaniacal aunt and she is hardly the only member of the cast who seems stranded in the film’s hectic fussy unconvincing world. Mr. Bettany alternately seething and sulking shows some of the same earnest misplaced intensity he displayed in “The Da Vinci Code ” a film that makes only slightly less sense than this one." Sienna Guillory (Resa) Paul Bettany (Dustfinger) Helen Mirren (Elinor) Jim Broadbent (Fenoglio) Andy Serkis (Capricorn) Eliza Hope Bennett (Meggie Folchart) Jennifer Connelly (Roxanne) and Rafi Gavron (Farid)." Mr. Bettany’s real-life wife Jennifer Connelly appears in his character’s dreams beseeching him to come home. Of course she means come home to “Inkheart ” the book from which poor Dustfinger has been exiled. But given the story’s deliberate blending of the fantastic and the literal she might also have meant come home from “Inkheart ” a movie that squanders far too much of its magic." ” a muddled film adaptation of a children’s best seller by Cornelia Funke celebrates the magic of books but it  can also be taken as a cautionary tale. One of its main bibliophiles Mortimer Folchart (Brendan Fraser) known as Mo possesses the marvelous power to animate the written word. When he reads aloud the story literally comes alive as characters and objects pop (or rather tremble) from the page into the real world. Impressive magic to be sure but it costs poor Mo  his wife (Sienna Guillory) and forces him to give up reading bedtime stories to his young daughter Meggie (Eliza Hope Bennett)." 
6606
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/23/movies/23crip.html
who was on far firmer ground in his documentary about the origins of the modern skateboard culture “Dogtown and Z-Boys ” has approached his new subject with heart but not enough intellectual skepticism." among other racial and ethnic enclaves. This was Jim Crow Cali-style — the covenants were statewide — a means to keep minorities of different colors geographically separate and consequently unequal. In 1948 the United States Supreme Court ruled that these covenants were illegal but the discrimination continued until the adoption of the federal Fair Housing Act in 1968." as are the disappearance of factory jobs from the city the state’s investment in the booming prison industry and the country’s history of slavery all of which Mr. Peralta touches on. These pieces might fit more convincingly into the Los Angeles gang narrative as well if he embraced a less deterministic attitude toward history and human behavior. It is one thing to argue that racism helps create the material and psychological conditions that lead to violent gangs; it’s another to argue as he basically and perhaps unwittingly does that these gangs can be all but excused by racism.  “I didn’t choose my destiny ” a man says early on “my destination chose me.”" in his excavation of Los Angeles gang life past and present the director Stacy Peralta conflates these separate if at times overlapping black histories to such a ridiculous degree that he undermines even the most persuasive parts of his argument." you might walk away from the documentary “Crips and Bloods: Made in America” thinking that the story of two of the most notoriously violent gangs in Los Angeles and the story of that city’s nongangbanging  African-American  population are one and the same." a strategy that like the frantic editing dilutes the historical momentum he is trying to build. There is something too jarring about his leap from the cotton fields to gangland." Tony Hardmon; edited by T. J. Mahar; music by Kamasi Washington and Matter performed by DJ Krush; produced by Baron Davis Dan Halsted Mr. Peralta and Jesse Dylan; released by Verso Entertainment and Balance Vector Productions. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes. This film is not rated." one laid out right at the start through Forest Whitaker’s voice-over narration and an abundance of archival imagery both still and moving is that racist housing covenants written into leases and deeds prevented blacks Latinos and Asians from living in white neighborhoods." but the overwhelming majority of poor black Los Angeles children do not pick up an AK-47. I’m certain that Mr. Peralta who can be heard lobbing off-camera questions at his subjects (“You can’t have a heart?”) knows this. Yet in his effort to be evenhanded to understand the former and current gangbangers who share their stories poses and colors  on camera he comes dangerously close to giving them a free pass." he manages to put a human face on a subject that tends to inspire inflamed debate and has produced calamitous laws and policies along with a lot of pop culture. It’s just that when one former gang member characterizes gangbangers as “urban soldiers ” it’s hard not to think that one man’s soldier is another’s terrorist a distinction that Mr. Peralta may reject but he should have engaged." 
6607
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/21/movies/21time.html
in spite of the care with which its pictures were assembled the movie acknowledges — even insists upon — the limitations of the cinematic image." Mr. Davies is also a surpassingly lyrical filmmaker. Which is not to say  there is anything soft sentimental or pretty about his sensibility. He may look backward with some fondness at the dowdy workaday Liverpool of his childhood and regard with horror the cheap modernist housing projects that concentrated misery in the name of relieving it but he hardly clings to a rosy view of the good old days. There was too much pain and longing too much sexual and spiritual confusion for any of that." their nostalgic charm darkened by accompanying music and by the counterpoint of Mr. Davies’s dry at times dyspeptic voice-over narration. His voice thickens with emotion as he recalls the delights of juvenile moviegoing or the ritual of a holiday trip to New Brighton and hardens with contempt when he turns his gaze on the hoopla surrounding Queen Elizabeth’s coronation in 1953." his deepest cultural affinity seems to be with poetry. “Of Time and the City ” with its meditative tone and thematically (rather than chronologically) determined structure might be classified as an essay film but it is even beyond that generic description a stubbornly and thrillingly literary work." from “Little Gidding ” the last of T. S. Eliot’s “Four Quartets ” have an abstract mystical cast. But when the British filmmaker Terence Davies recites them in his cinematic memoir “Of Time and the City ” they acquire a bracing and poignant specificity." faded scenes of mothers pushing prams fathers heading off to work shops and churches and factories are all in themselves ephemeral trivial mute. They are given eloquence partly by their juxtaposition in a collage but even more by the words that accompany them. And while some of these belong to Mr. Davies himself a great many are borrowed — from Sir Walter Raleigh and Percy Bysshe Shelley in addition to Eliot and others. Or perhaps not borrowed but claimed as part of a birthright whose precise function is to draw out the common meaning of individual experience." directed and narrated by Terence Davies; director of photography Tim Pollard; edited by Liza Ryan-Carter; produced by Solon Papadopoulos and Roy Boulter; released by Strand Releasing. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 14 minutes. This film is not rated." the eponymous city in this lovely astringent film and the setting for much of his other work including “Distant Voices Still Lives” (1988) “The Long Day Closes” (1992) and the trilogy made up of  “Children ” “Madonna and Child” and “Death and Transfiguration.”" ” in Mr. Davies’s sarcastic formulation — took place at a time when many of Her Majesty’s subjects were still reeling from the trauma of war and economic hardship. “After farce realism ” Mr. Davies says as pomp on screen dissolves into pictures of poverty and desperation." and it revisits some of the themes of those earlier autobiographical movies in particular the pains and pleasures of growing up Roman Catholic and gay in postwar Britain." but Mr. Davies is not a fan preferring Bruckner to the Beatles and Mahler to the Merseybeat sound." the film would have been sour and didactic. Instead it is a deeply personal piece of art that never descends into the confessional or the therapeutic and a work of social and literary criticism that never lectures or hectors but rather with melancholy tenderness and wit manages to sing." 
6608
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/21/movies/21phot.html
” the fourth feature from the Singapore-born writer and director Nan Triveni Achnas an unlikely friendship eases an old man’s death and a young woman’s  life." we don’t need words to see how images of loved ones can be anchors to the past or lifelines to the future." Shanty (Sita) Lukman Sardi (Surosos) and Indy Barends (Rosi)." a singer and an occasional prostitute in an Indonesian karaoke bar is forced to flee her angry pimp (Lukman Sardi) she persuades an ailing portrait photographer named Mr. Johan (Lim Kay Tong) to rent her his attic bedroom." “The Photograph” is a haunting — and haunted — examination of the way simple snapshots can galvanize and obstruct our ability to move on. Compensating for the languid narrative is the richness of Yadi Sugandi’s cinematography; when the story drifts there’s plenty to marvel at not least that “The Photograph” would probably work as a silent film." whose photograph spurs her determination to succeed. Mr. Johan dreams of finding an apprentice and returning home to China but the mysterious photographs he cherishes inspire only guilt and pain." Yadi Sugandi; edited by Sastha Sunu; music by Aksan Handayani and Titi Sjuman; produced by Ms. Achnas Shanty Harmayn Paquita Widjaja-Afief and Natacha Devillers; released by the Global Film Initiative. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art as part of the Global Lens 2009 series. In Indonesian with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6609
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/21/movies/21deal.html
the film  suggests is in our blood and the manufacture and distribution of arms a rampant social pathology that is not about to end anytime soon." directed by Sander Francken shifts abruptly back and forth between a ground-level view of how small arms have affected poor countries and a throw-up-your-hands analysis of the inability of any international agency including the United Nations to curtail the prolific and profitable small-arms trade. Although the film visits Cambodia Uganda and Bosnia it focuses mostly on Congo where imported guns have plunged the country into perpetual civil war." at best rough estimates. In the last 15 years Vanessa Redgrave says in a voice-over 100 million small arms were manufactured and sold with Western Europe the largest supplier. Attempts to reduce the supply are pitiful." handed free weapons and told to go fight one another." and to those who don’t share what might be called the gun gene they are boring and creepy." and the documentary includes more than one scene of gun-toting children wreaking havoc. Angry Congolese villagers emphasize   that the guns were not made there; they were  manufactured outside the country. They find their way to Congo by plane boat and car through shadowy networks that are almost impossible to trace because the route involves so many way stations with payoffs at each." Josh Lacey and Mr. Francken; narrated by Vanessa Redgrave; directors of photography Sander Snoep Pieter Groeneveld Edwin Donders Jan-Dries Groenendijk Maarten Kramer and Mr. Francken; edited by Gys Zevenbergen; music by Rainer Michel. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." because with a gun I can save my family ” declares a frightened Congolese villager in “Dealing and Wheeling in Small Arms ” a depressing scattershot survey of the spread of weaponry around the world especially in Africa." 
6610
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/17/movies/17vale.html
based on the screenplay by John Beaird and the story by Stephen Miller; director of photography Brian Pearson; edited by Mr. Lussier and Cynthia Ludwig; music by Michael Wandmacher; production designer Zack Grobler; produced by Jack Murray; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." Tom’s ex-girlfriend Sarah (Jaime King) is now married to his former best friend and current town sheriff Axel (the singularly narcotic Kerr Smith) though her eyes still do this weird flickery thing whenever she looks at Tom. Maybe she just needs an ophthalmologist." Harmony Tom (Jensen Ackles) who fled after the slaughter returns to sell the family mine." “My Bloody Valentine 3D” benefits from its dank claustrophobia. “I hit my head a lot ”  Kerr Smith says in the press notes recalling his days underground. That explains so much." “My Bloody Valentine 3D” blends cutting-edge technology and old-school prosthetics to produce something both familiar and alien: gore you can believe in. Stabilized by the welcome faces of old pros like Kevin Tighe and the genre giant Tom Atkins (“The Fog ” “Creepshow”) the movie’s staggering depth perception — you’ve seen a body cavity before but how many have you fallen into? — is never disorienting." horror and romance have been natural bedfellows. So perhaps the most remarkable thing about George Mihalka’s 1981 Canadian slasher “My Bloody Valentine ” is its lack of sequels: despite an actual plot and a setting bursting with pounce possibilities this fondly remembered genre piece has until now remained inviolate." on Valentine’s Day freshly pickaxed bodies sprout all over town their hearts nestled in blood-red candy boxes. Axel suspects Tom (because he keeps furtively popping pills); Tom suspects Axel (because of his unconvincing facial hair); and Sarah suspects she needs a manicure." gas-masked villain is less than inspired his parking-lot-to-motel-room pursuit of a naked terrified young woman (Betsy Rue) is the most entertaining five minutes I’ve spent in a movie theater in quite some time. If there were an award for acting full-frontally while wearing sky-high stilettos Ms. Rue would surely teeter away with it." Jaime King (Sarah Palmer) Kerr Smith (Axel Palmer) Kevin Tighe (Ben Foley) Edi Gathegi (Deputy Martin) Tom Atkins (Burke) Betsy Rue (Irene) and Megan Boone (Megan)." mesmerized at a severed hand oozing two inches from your nose you’ll be convinced that the extra dimension was worth seeking out." 
6611
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/16/movies/16perv.html
ego (Chico) and id (Harpo). In “Psycho ” the three levels of the Bates house — top floor ground floor and basement — embody the same unholy trinity. In Mr. Zizek’s view the raging male monsters of David Lynch’s “Blue Velvet” and “Lost Highway” personify pure phallic aggression released from the shadows of the unconscious. It is no coincidence that the song that encapsulates “Blue Velvet” is Roy Orbison’s eerie impassioned “In Dreams.”" this  is not a textbook in Krafft-Ebing. The word merely refers to the Peeping Tom aspect of moviegoing. In the darkness of a theater we can unashamedly gape at bodies and fantasize without being observed and in doing so we confront our demons in a safe environment. The movies of Hitchcock who was obsessed with emotional manipulation repeatedly toyed with the notion of the viewer as voyeur." Remko Schnorr (in studio) and Ms. Fiennes (on location); edited by Ethel Shepherd; music by Brian Eno; production designer Ben Zuydwijk; produced by Martin Rosenbaum Georg Misch Ralph Wieser and Ms. Fiennes; released by Lone Star Productions. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 2 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." ” then Freud stands as a proto movie critic who taught us how to decipher the hidden meanings of its celluloid fantasies. In “The Pervert’s Guide to Cinema ” the Slovenian philosopher Slavoj Zizek subjects more than 40 mostly classic films by directors ranging from Chaplin to Hitchcock to psychoanalytic scrutiny. We need movies because they hold the clues to our true selves Mr. Zizek argues in a wildly entertaining digressive lecture packed with juicy clips that illustrate his points." which contemplates appearance versus reality in movies explores the paradoxical scene from “The Wizard of Oz” in which the all-powerful Wizard is discovered to be an old man pontificating from behind a curtain.  Even when the illusion of the Wizard’s omnipotence is exposed Mr. Zizek theorizes there is something more real in the illusion than in the reality behind it. And so when the old man hands the Scarecrow a diploma to prove he has a brain the Scarecrow is convinced he is smart." he is also an academic magician and master of intellectual sleight of hand. Many of his statements especially those rooted in contradiction and paradox have the ring of brainy hocus-pocus." ” you may never see these directors’ movies the same way again. It is almost  as if those filmmakers received instructions from Freud himself on how to visualize his ideas." through hyperbole seasoned with grains of salt. Mr. Zizek belongs in that company." directed by Sophie Fiennes (sister of Ralph and Joseph) Mr. Zizek a blustery excitable lecturer is often filmed speaking on the actual locations of the films he discusses or on recreated sets. We find him riding on a motorboat in Bodega Bay in northern California the site of  “The Birds ” and prowling around the locations of “Vertigo”; those are  the two Hitchcock films besides “Psycho” to receive the closest scrutiny." the movie unfolds in three loosely overlapping sections. The first examines how the movies arouse our desires and allow us to channel unconscious drives into entertaining thrills and chills. The shower drain in “Psycho” and the toilet bowl  that backs up in Francis Ford Coppola’s conspiracy thriller “The Conversation ” he says are vehicles for transporting evidence of our brute animal selves to a safe distance." ” Mr. Zizek declares Mr. Lynch’s walking nightmares are manifestations of “the father who doesn’t want to die.” Anakin Skywalker’s transformation into Darth Vader in “Star Wars: Episode III —  Revenge of the Sith ” he says illustrates the same principle." and by extension the movies that address them are defenses against anxiety." 
6612
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/16/movies/16ball.html
twisted and sent floating on air according to the dictates of a severe and beautiful cult. The public pays top dollar to witness the fruits of this ritualized labor an exquisite discipline known as the Russian ballet and now the filmmaker Bertrand Normand bids to demystify its processes in a documentary portrait." go backstage at auditions and sit among the audience at the Maryinsky Theater home of Russia’s greatest dance company." with only a breezy contextualization of the historical political and aesthetic factors that play into this beguiling spectacle and only a skin-deep engagement with the interior lives of its stars." Mr. Normand Franck Laniel Isabelle Saunois Edward Oleschak Igor Yurov Alexandre Filipov Frédéric Podetti Dominique Collin and Thierry Maisonnave; edited by Antonela Bevenja; produced by Mr. Podetti and Yann Brolli; released by First Run Features. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Narrated by Diane Baker in English dialogue in Russian with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." the privilege compensates: one wants more from “Ballerina” because the world it reveals — elegant and harsh glamorous and grinding classical and obsolete — proves so rich in exquisite contradictions." 
6613
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/16/movies/16subl.html
a sullen assassin (Ross Pivec) turns up with an offer of $10 000 cash for the apartment setting in motion a minithriller plot as feckless as the rest. Georgiana Nestor directs from a script she wrote with Gautama Kavuri." nothing in “The Sublet” warrants derision  nor to be frank your time. The movie doesn’t take up much of it though at a mere 78 minutes it still feels attenuated like a passable student film aggrandized to feature length. One watches it with a mix of annoyance indifference and given the humility of the material a kind of patronizing sympathy." worn out by his sad social-networking scheme Walter answers the door one last time. Enter Maggie (Tiffany Lee) an aspiring singer newly arrived in the big city who strikes up the inevitable (and whimsical!) friendship with the old man." directed and edited by Georgiana Nestor; written by Ms. Nestor and Gautama Kavuri; director of photography Kamil Plocki; music by Corneliu Esanu; art director Basia Plewinska; released by Nologikfilms. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 18 minutes. This film is not rated." an elderly Upper West Side loner. One morning after ingesting his daily regimen of vitamins and cheap coffee Walter places a notice offering his apartment for sublet as a distraction from his tedious routine. The forced whimsy of this plot device is followed by the painful antics of a candidate-to-rent montage rife with sexual and racial stereotypes." Tiffany Lee (Maggie) Ross Pivec (Hit Man) Doris Dunigan (Maggie’s Mother) Daniel Hendricks Simon (Maggie’s Friend) and George A. Hirsch (Marchie)." 
6614
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/16/movies/16paul.html
you’re killing me!" Kevin James plays a lovable New Jersey doofus whose dreams of joining the police are foiled by a hypoglycemic condition that causes him to pass out in ostensibly hilarious contexts. Reduced to working security at a huge bustling shopping mall located in some economically vibrant fantasyland Blart falls in love with the perky proprietress of a hair-extension franchise (Jayma Mays)." Russ T. Alsobrook; edited by Jeff Freeman; music by Waddy Wachtel; production designer Perry Andelin Blake; produced by Todd Garner Mr. James Barry Bernardi Adam Sandler and Jack Giarraputo; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." a man who knows how to put a camera in front of things if little else and written sort of by Nick Bakay and Mr. James." Paul Blart! It’s time to well to fall over some more and bump into things and make silly faces and save the world and get the girl." Jayma Mays (Amy) Keir O’Donnell (Veck) Bobby Cannavale (Commander Kent) Stephen Rannazzisi (Stuart) and Shirley Knight (Mom) ." ” a tossed-off comedy from Adam Sandler’s production company that makes one long for the comparative genius of “I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry.”" 
6615
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/16/movies/16noto.html
but not much new insight or perspective." sometimes confusing fascination. Biggie Smalls’s best songs are so vivid — and the circumstances of their making are so vividly reconstructed here — that the usual nostalgic biopic haze never settles over “Notorious.” Instead you notice that Anthony Mackie a superb actor (notably in Ryan Fleck’s “Half Nelson” and Kathryn Bigelow’s soon-to-be-released “Hurt Locker”) doesn’t much resemble Tupac Shakur the volatile rapper he plays." Derek Luke (Sean Combs) Jamal Woolard (Christopher  Wallace a k a Biggie Smalls) Anthony Mackie (Tupac Shakur) Antonique Smith (Faith) Naturi Naughton (Lil’ Kim) Kevin Phillips (Mark) Dennis L. A. White (Damion) Marc John Jefferies (Cease) Julia Pace Mitchell (Jan) Aunjanue Ellis (Sandy) John Ventimiglia (Detective Farelli) C. Malik Whitfield (Wayne) and Christopher Jordan Wallace (Biggie ages 8 to 13)." half naturalistic docudrama. Not a bad movie but nowhere near as strong as its soundtrack. It does not explain its hero so much as revel in the memory of his many selves teasing the audience with a promise of intimacy and understanding much as Biggie himself did but without the same seductive payoff. The film’s tag line could be one of Biggie Smalls’s riddling irresistible refrains: If you don’t know now you know." slow-moving frame of Jamal Woolard a rapper himself who pushes hard against his limitations as an actor and occasionally knocks them down. He is propped up by the work of some agile more experienced supporting players notably Angela Bassett as Ms. Wallace and Derek Luke as a genial and energetic Sean (Puffy) Combs." but his archetypal brothers are the likes of Edward G. Robinson and James Cagney. In its themes and its structure “Notorious” is a half-knowing throwback to the Warner Brothers crime pictures of the 1930s and ’40s the tale of a kid from the wrong side of the tracks who rises high — “Made it Ma! Top of the world!” — and falls hard." as an overweight nerdy child (played by Biggie’s real-life son Christopher Jordan Wallace) he is teased at school and stung by the absence of his father. A friend named Damion (Dennis L. A. White) brings him into the drug trade and he and his girlfriend Jan (Julia Pace Mitchell) have a daughter while still in their teens." ” and it’s not entirely clear what is meant other than that the characters aspire to be better as well as richer and more famous. At times the movie seems to lump all those things together to imply that celebrity money clothes and boundless sexual opportunity are not just the rewards reaped by talent but also visible signs of righteousness." disentangling fact from myth is not always easy. Hip-hop thrives on the tension between “realness” and embellishment artfully blurring the line between raw testimony and fantastical exaggeration. Biggie Smalls one of several pseudonyms acquired by Christopher Wallace in the course of his short brilliant career put himself forward both as a fearless street truth-teller and as an outsize character — a player in at least two senses of the word. Rather than peel away these layers of invention and self-disclosure “Notorious” takes them all at face value presenting its protagonist in an array of contrasting sometimes contradictory identities." evenhanded account of the life of Biggie Smalls the Brooklyn-born rapper who was murdered in 1997 at the age of 24 will be disappointed perhaps even dismayed by “Notorious.” But why would anyone be looking for such a thing in the first place?" ” “Miracle at St. Anna”) Puffy Combs is a Horatio Algeresque entrepreneur exhorting Biggie to dream big to reach for the stars and even God bless him to “change the world.”" Michael Grady; edited by Dirk Westervelt and Steven Rosenblum; music by Danny Elfman; production designer Jane Musky; produced by Voletta Wallace Wayne Barrow Mark Pitts Robert Teitel and Trish Hofmann; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 2 minutes." drug dealing gunslinging and swearing." Faith Evans (Antonique Smith) will have their moments of jealousy rage and hurt. An early stint in prison in North Carolina gives Christopher a chance to reflect on his life and refine his rhyming skills which prove to be his ticket out of poverty even as they affirm his commitment at least rhetorically to the high life of the criminal kingpin." directed by George Tillman Jr. from a script by Reggie Rock Bythewood and Cheo Hodari Coker may not be an authorized biography but it is if anything less critical less ambivalent than some of Biggie’s own semi-autobiographical lyrics. The rapper’s mother Voletta Wallace and his friend Sean Combs are not only characters in “Notorious” but are also credited as producers. What they have produced is a messy lively melodrama reasonably faithful to the facts of Biggie’s life and wholeheartedly devoted to burnishing his myth." 
6616
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/16/movies/16dogs.html
the children track him to an abandoned hotel where a couple of stray dogs have taken up residence. Helped by Dave (Johnny Simmons) a friendly pet-store manager with a truck they evacuate the canine population of the prisonlike local pound  and relocate the dogs to the hotel which Bruce a mechanical wizard turns into a doggy  paradise stocked with miraculous gadgets." Bruce (Jake T. Austin) who have been shuttled among foster homes in the three years since the deaths of their parents. Their latest guardians Lois and Carl Scudder (Lisa Kudrow and Kevin Dillon) a scowling untalented pair of aspiring rock musicians are in the foster-parent business strictly for the money." ” the cuter-than-cute sweeter-than-sweet family film about animal-loving kids who embark on a crusade to rescue all the stray pooches in a fictional city. After watching the movie only a grouchy critic — one who shares W. C. Fields’s conviction that a man who hates children and dogs can’t be all bad — would shout “Bah humbug!” and summon the truant officer and the dog catcher. I wouldn’t dream of it but ..." “Hotel for Dogs” isn’t half as zany as it might have been. In any case it is loaded with enough stupid pet and human tricks to satisfy David Letterman for years to come." Jake T. Austin (Bruce) Kyla Pratt (Heather) Lisa Kudrow (Lois Scudder) Kevin Dillon (Carl Scudder) Don Cheadle (Bernie) Robinne Lee (Carol) and Johnny Simmons (Dave)." Bob Schooley and Mark McCorkle based on the book by Lois Duncan; director of photography Michael Grady; edited by Sheldon Kahn; music by John Debney; production designer William Sandell; produced by Lauren Shuler Donner Jonathan Gordon Ewan Leslie and Jason Clark; released by DreamWorks/Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." the frisky pups gleefully interact with Bruce’s outlandish inventions each of which is designed to meet a different need. The pooches exercise on rows of treadmills equipped with chewable bones as lures to keep them moving forward. A fetch machine spewing tennis balls also has them scampering to and fro. Meals are served in a Rube Goldberg-worthy assembly line that suggests a giant automat. Elaborate toilets streamline sewage disposal; there is even a self-draining hydrant with an attached shower." this movie imagines a world of brilliant caring children and glum clueless grown-ups. The only sympathetic adults are Andi and Bruce’s kindhearted but frustrated social worker Bernie (Don Cheadle) and his wife Carol (Robinne Lee)." and “Hotel for Dogs” is the rare example of a movie that equates rock ’n’ roll grunge with meanspiritedness. Because no dogs are allowed in the Scudders’ apartment Andi and Bruce are forced to conceal the existence of Friday their beloved insatiably hungry Jack Russell terrier." Romeo and Juliet begin making eyes." 
6617
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/16/movies/16cher.html
and another — Trudi’s favorite a son named Klaus — in Tokyo where his mother has always dreamed of going. Instead she and Rudi make a dutiful trip to visit their son Karl (Maximilian Brückner) who lives in bourgeois comfort with his wife and two children and daughter Karolin (Birgit Minichmayr) who lives in a more bohemian milieu with her lesbian lover Franzi (Nadja Uhl)." in a way the most banal. Travel to a foreign land can give you a fresh perspective on your life. Old habits die hard. A new friend can soothe your pain. In Rudi’s case friendship arrives in the person of Yu (Aya Irizuki) a waifish young Japanese woman who practices Butoh the form of dance that Trudi also loves." but I also don’t want to give away the narrative surprises threaded through this gentle sentimental tale. It will spoil nothing however to say that by the end of the film both parents have died and that each has contemplated the mixture of fulfillment and regret that has defined their relationship. The matter of mourning is handled with more delicacy than the intergenerational dimensions of the story which are clumsy and overstated especially when Klaus and Rudi during the father’s awkward visit to Japan must make up for years of silence and misunderstanding." its themes and metaphors are obvious rather than subtle and its emotional rhythms — rueful laughter punctuating the pathos — would not be out of place in a television drama. Too much is explained: we can appreciate the transitory beauty of cherry blossoms without being told that they are “a symbol of impermanence ” and the flies that serve a similar symbolic function don’t need to buzz around quite so insistently. Still there is something quiet and real in the way that this film contemplates the curious interplay of happiness and sorrow." but to make a Japanese movie. Her attempts to balance emotional circumspection with an openness to feeling and to infuse her images with a simple unaffected beauty evoke a Japanese tradition going back to Kenji Mizoguchi and Yasujiro Ozu and flourishing in the work of Hirokazu Kore-eda. “Still Walking ” Mr. Kore-eda’s most recent film shown last year in Toronto shares with “Cherry Blossoms” an interest in how people grow old in a marriage and cope with loss." Hanno Lentz; edited by Inez Regnier and Frank Müller; music by Claus Bantzer; produced by Molly von Fürstenberg and Harald Kügler; released by Strand Releasing. At the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. In German English and Japanese with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 4 minutes. This film is not rated." Hannelore Elsner (Trudi) Nadja Uhl (Franzi) Maximilian Brückner (Karl) Aya Irizuki (Yu) Birgit Minichmayr (Karolin) Felix Eitner (Klaus) and Floriane Daniel (Emma)." each member of which must confront the other’s death one in prospect the other in fact. The conceit that makes this reciprocity possible — one of those symptom-free incurable diseases that so frequently befall movie characters — may be hard to swallow but once you accept it you can be charmed and touched by the way it plays out." 
6618
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/16/movies/16chan.html
so it’s no surprise that “Chandni Chowk to China” can so seamlessly add kung fu to the usual blend of comedy dance and melodrama. After all the choreographed fighting is dancing by another name and plays off the same desire to see movie-star bodies in motion." ” the first Bollywood movie to be financed and distributed by Warner Brothers starts too frantically but settles down to become an enjoyable if slight Saturday-matinee picture. The affable Akshay Kumar fresh from the runaway hit “Singh Is Kinng ” stars as Sidhu a vegetable cutter in the Chandni Chowk marketplace in Delhi who dreams of being something more. Sidhu an all-Indian boy and a bumbler whose clumsiness gets him in and out of trouble travels to China where he’s mistakenly thought to be an incarnation of a great fighter come to save a village from the evil Hojo (Gordon Liu). Hojo’s best trick? Slicing off heads with the edge of his boomerang bowler hat. (That’s just one homage — to Oddjob in “Goldfinger” — in a film crammed with movie references.)" it’s hard not to see a broader point: India don’t be afraid of China’s accomplishments. Be yourself. You will succeed." Deepika Padukone (Sakhi/Suzy/Meow Meow) Mithun Chakraborty (Dada) Ranvir Shorey (Chopstick) Gordon Liu (Hojo) and Roger Yuan (Chiang)." with dialogue and lyrics by Rajat Aroraa; director of photography Himman Dhamija; music directors Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy and Kailasa; choreography by Pony Verma; produced by Ramesh Sippy Mukesh Talreja and Rohan Sippy; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. In Hindi Cantonese and Mandarin with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes." a potato with the face of the god Ganesh an interpreter called Chopstick and most intriguingly Asia’s two superpowers meeting in the arena of pop culture. The explicit message for the Indian hero is know yourself and be self-reliant and you will triumph. Sidhu’s best trick? A kung fu move derived from his years of cutting vegetables." 
6619
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/14/movies/14sleep.html
based on a novel by Mia Couto the filmmaker Teresa Prata creates an affecting portrait of life during wartime. Ms. Prata a skilled storyteller with a clear unsentimental eye neatly balances large-scale horror with a small-scale point of view charged with simple direct feeling deftly interweaving the present-tense narrative with the tale from the journal." post-apocalyptic novel “The Road.” An old man (Aladino Jasse) and a young orphan (Nick Lauro Teresa) walk a parched road keeping an eye out for marauding gangs. They come across a flame-scarred bus stuffed with burnt corpses and make it their home venturing out to forage for scraps of food in the ravaged landscape." Dominique Gentil; edited by Paulo Rebelo; music by Alex Goretzki; produced by Pandora Da Cunha Telles António Da Cunha Telles and Camilo de Sousa; released by the Global Film Initiative. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art as part of the Global Lens 2009 series. In Portuguese with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." Aladino Jasse (Tuahir) Hélio Fumo (Kindzu) and Ilda Gonzalez (Farida)." and of a woman (Ilda Gonzalez) who is searching for her lost son. The orphan asks could it be me? And as in “The Road ” he journeys toward the sea to discover his fate." but its confrontation with the experience of war bespeaks a wide-awake mind." 
6620
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/14/movies/14mock.html
though it also sounds like a punning nod to mockumentary — has its pleasures visual and otherwise. It’s fun to watch and puzzle through though it also makes for a somewhat fatiguing 110 minutes because Mr. Baldwin perhaps in a bid to get around copyright laws and fair-use questions that arise whenever an artist borrows someone else’s work moves through his material very quickly deploying confetti-size edits that tend to run together without enough modulation. Even so the movie charms as much as it confounds as it hovers in the twilight zone between real life and the imaginary world between history and its interpolations between what you know and what you wish you believed." confounding exhausting and altogether stranger and more rib-ticklingly funny than most fiction Craig Baldwin’s infelicitously titled and cacophonous provocation “Mock Up on Mu ” comes close to defying categorization. Much like Mr. Baldwin’s previous cut-and-paste works — including the film “Tribulation 99 ” his self-professed “pseudo-pseudo-documentary” about American interventions in Latin America — this new work hits your synapses like a cluster bomb assailing your tremulous gray matter with a barrage of cinematic fragments (most recycled some newly shot) miscellaneous rants and ruminations." Mr. Baldwin is at once a collector and curator of 20th-century visual culture. Working with the editor Sylvia Schedelbauer he pulls together a wide range of fiction and nonfiction images stitching his story from familiar bits and oddball pieces that he’s borrowed from our shared imaginary museum. Everything is grist for his mill though he tends to be something of an antiquarian mixing unidentified clips from the 1950 women-in-prison movie “Caged” with Cary Grant dodging a truck in Hitchcock’s 1959 classic “North by Northwest”; a bit from the first “Star Trek” series; and Ray Milland lurching about in sunglasses that hide his eerie X-ray-vision eyes in Roger Corman’s 1963 flick “X.”" “Mock Up on Mu” — shot on 16 millimeter and shown digitally  — recounts some of the more far-out and apparently true tales involving American inner and outer space travel. The Web site for the movie (othercinema.com/mu.html) contains the coy assertion that it’s “(mostly) true ” which is the kind of truth in advertising that should be more widely adopted. More to the point this defensive assertion may be directed at anyone who might take offense at the gently parodic portrait of one of its main characters L. Ron Hubbard (the filmmaker Damon Packard) whose trippy musings blend in with those of Jack Parsons (Kal Spelletich) a founder   of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory; his wife Marjorie Cameron (Michelle Silva); and some guy named Lockheed Martin (Stoney Burke)." 
6621
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/09/movies/09yonk.html
a sometime partner in the con game. If Janice with her shiny wardrobe silver-polished nails and tacky jewelry looks credibly tawdry Ms. Lahti’s innate demureness undercuts the brass. Especially in her scenes with Joe Jr. the tough street-hardened edge in her voice softens into the indulgent coo of an upscale suburban mom." the tensions among Joe Joe Jr. and Janice whose friendliness toward Joe Jr. he disastrously misinterprets as attraction are stretched to the breaking point." Michael Fimognari; edited by Jim Makiej and Gary A. Friedman; music by Chris Hajian; production designer Jonathan Carlson; produced by Trent Othick; released by Magnolia Pictures. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." Christine Lahti (Janice) Thomas Guiry (Joe Jr.) Michael Lerner (Stanley) Linus Roache (Teddy) Michael Rispoli (Mickey) and Roma Maffia (Santini)." the movie turns into mawkish drivel. Like so many embattled-father-son movies “Yonkers Joe” congratulates itself by imagining that a hug and an endearment will confer instant redemption after years of neglect." although she is neither." a Mamet regular Mr. Palminteri has larceny written all over his dark stormy features. Joe’s portly right-hand man Stanley (Michael Lerner) is also out of Mamet serving as the movie’s answer to Ricky Jay." ” written and directed by Robert Celestino gathers momentum it becomes an unwieldy if absorbing hybrid of incompatible movies.  One is a diabolical David Mamet caper comedy in which Joe engineers a score that will give him the means to place Joe Jr. in a fancy hospital. The other is an inspirational family drama heavily indebted to “Rain Man ” a film in which gambling also figured  prominently." convincingly played by Tom Guiry is an unmanageable handful who acts out every impulse.  Resentful of his father for ignoring him during a hospitalization that began when his mother abandoned the family he lashes out in wild-animal tantrums whenever he is thwarted." the movie’s executive producer) who lives in Yonkers is a card sharp and virtuoso at slipping loaded dice into crap games.  Unlike the majority of movie criminals Joe suffers self-pitying pangs of conscience about an occupation that provides him with a modest living. When forced to take care of his uncontrollable 20-year-old son who has Down syndrome and has just been ejected from the institution where he has spent the last 12 years Joe grouses that it is “payback for what I do.”" “Yonkers Joe” isn’t half as tough as it pretends to be. The real story of these bottom-feeders and the sad young man they exploit is a lot uglier than the movie even begins to let on." conspiratorial glances shared by Joe and his crew as they fleece naïve gamblers in backrooms and at a clambake “Yonkers Joe” is far more persuasive in its ersatz-Mamet mode than as a tear-jerker. The petty crook Joe is one of the meatiest roles of Mr. Palminteri’s career." 
6622
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/09/movies/09unbo.html
fitfully and presumably unintentionally funny mess  may be the first horror flick to contain the assurance that “no actual Torah scrolls were destroyed or damaged in the making of this motion picture.” Written and directed by David S. Goyer “The Unborn” does inflict harm elsewhere notably on its hapless lead the wincingly thin Odette Yustman as a hapless  college student Casey Beldon who when not prettily posing in her underwear is screaming and screaming and sometimes running from a veritable laundry list of horror staples: creepy little children creepy little ghost children and lots of creepy and crawly and slimy bugs." including the first “Blade” movie (he shares a story credit on “The Dark Knight”) Mr. Goyer isn’t without visual or thematic ideas. The use of scores of the shiny amber-colored potato bugs also known as Jerusalem crickets is a nice shivery touch here particularly when they are scuttling toward Casey and her wide-open yowling mouth. And the dog with the twisted head could star in its own hound-of-hell sequel." Gary Oldman (Rabbi Sendak) Meagan Good (Romy) Cam Gigandet (Mark) James Remar (Gordon Beldon) Atticus Shaffer (Matty Newton) Jane Alexander (Sofi Kozma) and Idris Elba (Arthur Wyndham)." both with some of its casting choices and some unfortunate dialogue (the repeated warning that “Jumby wants to be born now”) that it’s hard to know if Mr. Goyer wants to make us howl with fear or laughter." James Hawkinson; edited by Jeff Betancourt; music by Ramin Djawadi; production designer Craig Jackson; produced by Michael Bay Andrew Form and Brad Fuller; released by Rogue Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." which after many detours shrieks and mild boo moments  finally snakes back — in murky flashback — to Auschwitz and Josef Mengele’s experiments on twins. As it turns out poor Casey is a twin a condition that for generational reasons has attracted a shape-shifting dybbuk which in Jewish mythology is the demonic spirit of a dead person that takes possession of the living. This dybbuk which at its most nifty twists its head 180 degrees Linda Blair-style can be rooted out only with the help of a Holocaust survivor (Jane Alexander with numbers inked on her arm) and an exorcism performed by an accommodating rabbi (Gary Oldman in a skullcap)." 
6623
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/09/movies/09love.html
like his more highbrow Danish countryman Lars von Trier has the imagination of a compulsive trickster. But where Mr. von Trier relishes intellectual gamesmanship Mr. Bornedal revels in the garish and the morbid. His 1997 English-language remake of his earlier horror thriller “Nightwatch ” set in a morgue toyed with necrophilia. Jonas is a crime scene photographer who is also shown in a morgue casually conversing with his colleagues about sex while surrounded by naked corpses." “Just Another Love Story.” This  jumpy high-adrenaline thriller administers a stinging slap in the face to the popular notion of Denmark as one of the happiest places on earth." her wealthy family is pleased to note that her newest lover is a stunning departure from her customary bad boys. Once Jonas has shed his family and the lovers have repaired to Julia’s family’s plush seaside home her memory begins to return and the nasty games begin." Rebecka Hemse (Julia Castlund) Nikolaj Lie Kaas (Sebastian) Charlotte Fich (Mette) Dejan Cukic (Frank) Karsten Jansfort (Poul) Ewa Froling (Julia’s Mother) and Bent Mejding (Julia’s Father)." 2 and 3 and unfolds as a puzzle. The opener   observes the film’s protagonist and occasional narrator Jonas (Anders W. Berthelsen) dying in the street amid a downpour as like the floating corpse of Joe Gillis in “Sunset Boulevard ” he offers dry commentary. Many narrative twists and jarring flashbacks later the pieces of the puzzle come together and the ludicrous but ingeniously constructed story makes a kind of sense." you have the not unpleasant sense of being taken for a ride. It may not go anywhere in particular but it is as exciting as a trip through a well-equipped scary fun house." Mette (Charlotte Fich) and two children;   he smugly calculates that he and Mette have made love 2 000 times since marrying. And the snippets of the couple going at it indicate that there is heat left in the marriage. But Jonas confesses that he harbors a growing itch for mad passion with a mysterious femme fatale." they press him to try to revive Julia by talking to her kissing her and getting into her hospital bed. He obliges and before long is besotted. Especially in moments when a sinister figure wrapped in bandages is shown furtively darting through the corridors in a wheelchair the macabre hospital scenes recall Mr. von Trier’s surreal television series “The Kingdom.”" two cars speeding in opposite directions swerve to avoid him and collide head-on. Jonas who blames himself for the accident visits the hospital to inquire about the condition of the only survivor Julia (Rebecka Hemse) whom he discovers lying in a coma." the movie suggests whose inhabitants  —  at least the men  —  seethe  with boredom under  their facade of contentment. The slaps in the face are literal in a movie in which  two of the crazier characters compare themselves to Orpheus and Eurydice and exchange kisses that draw blood." the members of her distraught family welcome  him believing that he must be her boyfriend Sebastian whom they have never met. The free-spirited Julia hooked up with Sebastian on a trip to  Asia. Flashbacks show her frolicking at Angkor Wat with the real Sebastian (Nikolaj Lie Kaas) a dashing adventurer with a psychotic gleam in his eye." Dan Laustsen; edited by Anders Villadsen; music by Joachim Holbek; produced by Michael Obel; released by Koch Lorber Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. In Danish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6624
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/09/movies/09brok.html
a response the distributors either anticipated or courted with late and scarce press screenings. Still it is worth comparing “Not Easily Broken” with another much-written-about film about a marriage in crisis Sam Mendes’s “Revolutionary Road ” which has energetically solicited the admiration of reviewers and awards-giving organizations. That movie it seems to me is fatally compromised by pretension and bad faith by its refusal to engage with the lives of its characters other than by means of a secondhand literary conceit and a set of unexamined and dubious sociological assumptions." ” a member of the audience remarked to her companion at the screening I attended. “It’s because she’s the other woman.”" based on the book by T. D. Jakes; director of photography Geary McLeod; edited by Josh Rifkin; music by Kurt Farquhar; production designer Cecil Gentry; produced by Mr. Duke Mr.  Jakes and Curtis Wallace; released by TriStar Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." ” but the movie’s racial themes are understated rather than emphatic. It lives neither in a post-racial utopian America nor in the kind of Balkanized hell imagined in a movie like “Crash ” but rather in a simplified and sentimentalized version of the real world." Taraji P. Henson (Clarice Johnson) Maeve Quinlan (Julie Sawyer) Kevin Hart (Tree) Wood Harris (Darnell) Albert Hall (Bishop Wilkes) Eddie Cibrian (Brock Houseman) Jenifer Lewis (Mary Clark) and T. D. Jakes (Allen)." introducing characters whose purpose is to illuminate various aspects of Dave’s strong quiet decency. Darnell (Wood Harris) is an ex-convict whose life of irresponsibility and dissolution is presented as a stark and pointed contrast to Dave’s. Julie (Maeve Quinlan) is a single mother and a physical therapist whose friendship with Dave causes some easily foreseen trouble." including producer) his real on-screen surrogate is Albert Hall who plays a serious and soft-spoken Los Angeles minister. Among his flock are  Dave and Clarice Johnson a couple whose marriage is sorely somewhat predictably and fairly realistically tested by an assortment of internal and external stresses." and the extreme shifts in emotional tone —  especially a late and disastrous swerve into tragedy —  are handled clumsily in Brian Bird’s script. Yet “Not Easily Broken” is not easily dismissed. For one thing the cast is excellent and for another its intentions are serious and generous." ” a melodrama of marital difficulty directed by Bill Duke is based on a novel by T. D. Jakes pastor of the Potter’s House megachurch in Dallas and a powerhouse of that ever-expanding zone of American life in which religion therapy and popular culture intersect. “I don’t want to go all Oprah on you ” a character says at one point but Mr. Jakes is doing a version of just that advancing a more overtly Christian and more frankly patriarchal version of Oprah Winfrey’s message of empathy resilience and forgiveness." and Dave (Morris Chestnut) is a contractor whose youthful dreams of a professional baseball career were wrecked by an injury. Their slow drift apart is accelerated by a car accident the specter of infidelity and a host of other complications not the least of which is the presence of Clarice’s bitter interfering emasculating mother (Jenifer Lewis)." Dave muses that women no longer regard men as heroes and that men don’t see themselves that way either a situation he describes as “the world turned upside down.” Though he declines to identify the cause of that inversion “Not Easily Broken” puts a big share of the blame for the trouble in Dave’s house on his mother-in-law and his wife." capable of moving from tart to tender from manic to maternal in the course of a single scene and she gives warmth and credibility to a role that sometimes edges close to caricature. (Ms. Lewis for her part has a fine time embodying an archetype as old as the Flintstones.)" materialistic undermining of her husband’s pride and unwilling to give him what he wants most which is a child. He compensates by coaching Little League which gives him a chance to hang out with his buddies a charming amoral ladies’ man (Eddie Cibrian) and a motor-mouth hyper-emotional joker (Kevin Hart) who serves as an all-around comic sidekick and who provides some laughs along with the suds and the tears." fairly transparent ideological agenda but is nonetheless a thousand times more honest and more humane than Mr. Mendes’s preening work of ersatz art. Many more people are likely to see Mr. Duke’s film and to find it moving edifying and even useful. That’s not everything of course. But it’s not nothing either." 
6625
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/09/movies/09brid.html
Casey Wilson and June Diane Raphael based on a story by Mr. DePaul; director of photography Frederick Elmes; edited by Susan Littenberg Hagler; music by Edward Shearmur; production designer Dan Leigh; produced by Julie Yorn Kate Hudson and Alan Riche; released by Fox 2000 Pictures and Regency Enterprises. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." after all (she was also one of the producers) and often as inconsequential as almost every other Kate Hudson movie of the last decade. Happily it’s also something of an Anne Hathaway movie which means that there’s a little acting in it along with a few human emotions and two wide-pooling eyes that invite you to get lost in them.  You don’t — there’s no getting lost in a movie like “Bride Wars” — but it’s nice to pretend that they might lead somewhere else say to San Francisco where once upon another time two female movie characters inspired by Harvey Milk (or maybe just Sean Penn) will take on the gay-marriage ban and say “I do I do” to something more than shopping." then that Mr. Winick a Sundance alumnus turned Hollywood hire has made New York look as pretty as a tourist postcard. That’s par for the mainstream course but it’s too bad that he doesn’t (or can’t) venture down the more interesting avenues opened up in the screenplay which is credited to Greg DePaul (who came up with the story) and the writing team of Casey Wilson and June Diane Raphael who both have small parts in the movie. The opener — a gauzy scene from childhood that finds Liv and Emma dressed as a bride and groom tenderly dancing with each other — and an adult catfight which looks like a prelude to a kiss suggest that there may be more to this friendship (and the fury underlying its rupture) than either the women or the movie can admit." Bridezilla die!" they shop. They shop for stationery they shop for cakes flowers rings and of course satiny swaths of designer white that will if only for a single dreamy day transform these putatively sharp savvy seemingly capable modern women into fairy tale princesses. The overworked schoolteacher Emma and the high-flying hardball lawyer Liv will slough off their everyday cares clothes and carnal histories (both live with their dreary boyfriends) and assume the mantle of symbolic purity. Re-virginized in a manner of speaking they will become the center of attention not only in their lives but also in the movies which these days have an otherwise difficult time making this much room for women." Anne Hathaway (Emma) Kristen Johnston (Deb) Bryan Greenberg (Nate) Candice Bergen (Marion) Steve Howey (Daniel) Chris Pratt (Fletcher) Casey Wilson (Stacy) and June Diane Raphael (Amanda)." which lately seems to offer one of the few story lines that afford American actresses shots at serious screen time. I’m exaggerating of course though to judge from a clutch of recent titles — “License to Wed ” “Margot at the Wedding ” “Evening ” “Enchanted ” “The Heartbreak Kid ” “Sex and the City ” “Mamma Mia! ” “27 Dresses” and “Made of Honor” — the walk down the aisle has picked up increasing speed. Weddings are big business and now  so too are movies involving comically tragic tragically comic ceremonies that range from the low-end vulgar (“What Happens in Vegas”) to the high-end touchy-feely (“Rachel Getting Married”) and generally have less to do with the world we live in than Adam Sandler’s cheeky (straight) buddy comedy “I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry.”" as one of the male characters does. As far as I can tell however both Liv (Ms. Hudson) and Emma (Ms. Hathaway) are deeply unreasonable because they are female stereotypes: unreasonableness is built into their character arcs. After the scheduling botch and after dismissing the idea of a double wedding they go to war. Petty and cutesy pathological behavior ensues: Liv replaces Emma’s spray-on-tan formula with an angry orange that brings to mind deep-fried Donatella Versace. Emma tampers with Liv’s hair dye recoloring her honeyed locks a streaky blue and white that simultaneously invokes fairground cotton candy leaky Bic pens and Courtney Love." which may explain their appeal at least to risk-averse studios. Though it has a patina of realism “Bride Wars” often seems as much a fairy tale as “Enchanted ” the 2007 Disney movie with Amy Adams in which a would-be cartoon bride evolves into a live-action careerist." “Bride Wars” takes place in a shiny New York fantasia where a teacher like Emma could after a decade of penny pinching and Chinese takeout afford the services of an exclusive wedding planner (a humorous stiff-lipped Candice Bergen) and a Plaza blowout. Emma even eyeballs a Vera Wang (on her Web site the designer returns the favor with a sizable ad for the movie)." ” a dopey if largely painless romantic comedy with Kate Hudson and Anne Hathaway as best friends forever who turn into best enemies forever because of a wedding day glitch. Since childhood the two have dreamed of getting married at the Plaza (alas not to each other) a reverie that turns into a manufactured nightmare when their respective nuptials are scheduled for the same day in June." 
6626
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/02/movies/02carg.html
Alexander Simonov; edited by Tatyana Kuzmicheva; produced by Sergey Selyanov; released by the Disinformation Company. At Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. In Russian with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." ” Alexey Balabanov’s morbidly compelling thriller set in the Soviet Union." Alexander Simonov coaxes a savage beauty from sad skylines and the gaunt shells of silent factories. As Zhurov’s drunken mother sprawls in front of an absurd television show steadfastly ignoring the horrors in the next room “Cargo 200” plumbs near-comical depths of anti-Communist fury. Not many people will be laughing." the economy and the party are collapsing and the bodies of slain Soviet soldiers — code-named Cargo 200 — arrive regularly from the war in Afghanistan. Seeking distraction a number of loosely related characters stray into the countryside where dancing drinking and unreliable vehicles kick-start a tale of unpredictable jeopardy and escalating depravity." Mr. Balabanov conjures a political and moral landscape drowning in corruption and pickled in black-market vodka. People cross paths and disappear only to show up later wielding firearms or unexpected official identities. Connecting them is a hollow-eyed police officer named Zhurov (Alexey Poluyan) whose abduction and abuse of the innocent daughter of a party official is the movie’s grandest act of sadism." Alexey Poluyan (Zhurov) Leonid Gromov (Artyom) Alexey Serebryakov (Alexey) Leonid Bichevin (Valera) and Yury Stepanov (Mikhail)." 
6627
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/31/movies/31good.html
presumably (the movie doesn’t say) that book has value as propaganda because for the Nazis the difference between mercy killing and the Final Solution is just a matter of degree. The movie  shoehorns in a subplot involving Halder’s shoddy treatment of his miserable ailing mother." where Halder finally faces the reality he has denied. As he wanders dazedly around the premises casting furtive glances the prisoners and guards played by healthy-looking actors are clumsily arranged in stiff tableaus as though they were about to perform in a pageant. It is the single most unconvincing death-camp scene I have encountered in a film." based on the play by C. P. Taylor; director of photography Andrew Dunn; edited by John Wilson; music by Simon Lacey; production designer Andrew Laws; produced by Miriam Segal; released by ThinkFilm. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 31 minutes. This film is not rated." not to be taken seriously that will soon play itself out. Even when a book burning takes place outside his window he finds a positive side to it. At every turn he appears to be either so naïve or so stupid that even after the transport of Jews is well under way he remains in near-total denial." Jason Isaacs (Maurice) Jodie Whittaker (Anne) Steven Mackintosh (Freddie) Mark Strong (Bouhler) and Gemma Jones (Mother)." where “Good” opened in 1982 after playing in London the protagonist (portrayed by Alan Howard) surrounded by the other actors on a nearly bare stage engaged them in reflective stream-of-consciousness dialogues. For the screen the play has been streamlined opened up in the most literal ways and given a somewhat more linear structure. There is so little room left for character development and texture that John Wrathall’s screenplay often feels like a bare-bones outline." during moments of stress hears snippets  of imaginary music in his head. These interludes in the film are so fleeting they barely register and the devastating comparison between imaginary music soothing an anxious soul and actual music played amid apocalyptic horror is lost." Maurice (Jason Isaacs) who fought beside him in World War I. Mr. Isaacs’s performance is the strongest in the movie but he cannot overcome the primness of dialogue that underplays his terror and outrage as the world closes in around him and as Halder to whom he desperately turns for help repeatedly betrays him." especially Mr. Mortensen speak in preposterously cultivated English accents that lend horrific events the tonal weight of a fracas at a tea party. Mr. Mortensen seems locked in an emotional straitjacket in which he signals his discomfort by warily shifting his eyes back and forth and behaving in a nervously defensive manner." a juicy Nazi-sympathizing student for whom he abandons his demanding neurotic wife (Anastasia Hille) makes him feel like a he-man. Or maybe he is seduced by the flattery heaped upon him by a high-ranking Nazi official (Mark Strong) who relays the inner circle’s admiration for his novel about euthanasia." unless you accept that he’s a moral vacuum in which case why write a play  about such a nonentity? The movie dances as skittishly around its subject as its protagonist blindly ignores portents of the impending Holocaust." ” the anemic screen adaptation of C. P. Taylor’s play about a respectable “good German” who passively acquiesces to Hitler’s agenda Viggo Mortensen miscast and ineptly directed by Vicente Amorim plays John Halder a liberal mild-mannered literature professor  who becomes a Nazi." 
6628
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/31/movies/31defi.html
many of the people they rescue are what Zus calls malbushim the Hebrew word for clothes which he uses to describe people he thinks are worthless.  And this film’s characters more or less are what they wear. Tuvia cuts a dashing figure in his brown leather jacket. An older schoolteacher (Allan Corduner) with a fedora a fine scarf and a nicely trimmed beard arrives coughing and quoting Talmud." ” a Russian officer remarks when he meets Tuvia and his younger angrier brother Zus (Liev Schreiber). “These Jews do” is the response and also the gist of Edward Zwick’s stiff musclebound  new movie. Based on a book by Nechama Tec “Defiance” tells the true and astonishing story of the Bielski partisans who fought the Nazis and rescued hundreds of Jews through the darkest years of war and genocide." not really but it’s always useful at least in a movie like this one to have someone around to say things like “At least Descartes recognized the subjective nature of existence” or “If my friends at The Socialist Review  could see me now!” And in the society that Tuvia builds in the forest (after Zus more a fighter than an organizer joins up with a Red Army brigade) intellectuals do have a role." a counterpoint to all those lachrymose World War II tales of helplessness and victimhood." but the problem is that in setting out to overturn historical stereotypes of Jewish passivity Mr. Zwick (who co-wrote the screenplay with Clayton Frohman) ends up affirming them." Asael (Jamie Bell) and Aron (George MacKay) who is still a child — meet up in the forest after their parents have been murdered by local authorities working in league with the German invaders. The Bielski boys are rough characters — a history of smuggling and petty criminality is hinted at — who can hold their vodka and  know how to shoot how to steal and how to navigate the dense and trackless forests." Isaac (Mark Feuerstein) with round glasses and a nebbishy vest can barely use a hammer. “What is it you do?” Zus asks. “I suppose you could say I was — I am — an intellectual ” Isaac stammers. Zus cannot hide his amusement or his contempt: “This is a job?”" more would have survived. This may be true in a narrow sense but it also has the effect of making the timidity of the Jews rather than the barbarity of the Nazis and the vicious opportunism of their allies a principal cause of the Shoah." whose other movies include “Glory ” “The Siege” and “Blood Diamond ” is many things but subtle is not one of them. (Remember that horse in the first paragraph? Did I mention that it was white?) He wields his camera with a heavy hand punctuating nearly every scene with emphatic nods smiles or grimaces as the occasion requires. His pen is if anything blunter still with dialogue that crashes down on the big themes like a blacksmith’s hammer." Isaac and the schoolteacher provide a measure of ethical guidance and political counsel. Or at least they seem to. “You have ideas about community?” Tuvia asks Isaac and later when Tuvia on horseback utters the word “community ” Isaac smiles." ” Tuvia Bielski (Daniel Craig) sits astride his horse welcoming new arrivals to his encampment in the Belarussian forest. It is late in 1941 and the newcomers like the other people in this makeshift settlement are Jews from surrounding towns and villages who have fled the savagery of the German Army and its local collaborators. Tuvia addresses these terrified survivors in a calm authoritative voice assuring them that here under his protection they will be free and safe. A little boy looks up in amazement at this heroic figure and asks his mother “Is he a Jew?”" he is not dumb. You might even say that he is an intellectual since “Defiance” is animated as much by an idea as by rousing emphatic emotions. It is most interesting and most persuasive not as a chronicle of heroic action but rather as a series of arguments — mainly between the patient Tuvia and the hot-headed Zus — about justice righteousness and how a decent society should function. Zus is a man of action Tuvia a man of principle but in good dialectical fashion each one cedes some ground to the other —  Tuvia by condoning and committing necessary acts of violence Zus by saying something nice every once in a while." so are the women called upon to gaze at the Bielskis with wide melting eyes. Three of them (Alexa Davalos Iben Hjejle and Mia Wasikowska) will be chosen as “forest wives”  by Tuvia Zus and Asael. “You saved my life ” says Lilka (Ms. Davalos) to Tuvia as they lie together wrapped in furs and illuminated by golden sunlight. “No. You saved mine ” he says." odds-defying feat it was but rather as an ideal that those who did not survive failed to live up to. Death and victimization can be and have been treated with sentimentality but so too can toughness. “Defiance” celebrates strong men (who in real life sought no such glory) at the expense of those whose weakness — whose inability to fight back or to stay alive — was not a moral failure but a fact of history. It’s not exactly false but it’s more than a little inauthentic." 
6629
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/26/movies/26road.html
which displays all the fastidious attention to detail  —  the sack suits that seem to be swallowing Frank whole the touches of Danish modern in the Wheeler living room  —  you expect from this kind of prestige production. Mr. Mendes himself is a prestige number of course as are the two appealing stars who shed a great deal of sweat and tears trying to put across their characters. They enter the story with their fists in the air and it isn’t long before they’re slugging away at each other absorbing low blows and landing brutal hits which they continue to do to the bitter end in between angry accusatory speeches about the lousiness of their lives." it’s largely because Mr. Mendes’s investment in this story feels professional diagnostic. Part of what makes the novel so powerful beyond its familiar American theme of self-discovery is its unwavering fury and how each intimate and acid word feels personal as if Yates had dredged them up from some place deep inside his own being. No one gets off the hook in “Revolutionary Road ” least of all its author whose insistence on stripping his characters down to the marrow is so relentless it can’t help but feel like an act of self-flagellation. As a film director at least Mr. Mendes comes across as too coolly diffident for that kind of blazing heat. He keeps his distance." and briefly into the arms of another woman (Zoe Kazan). There’s a short sweet reprieve when out of the blue April decides that the only escape for her and Frank is to pack up the kids and move to Paris where she insists he will at long last be able to find himself and become the man she desperately wants him to be. Paris will be their way out of suburbia and the ticky-tacky little box on a hillside on that cruelly named street Revolutionary Road. But it’s also clear from the deadening claustrophobia of Sam Mendes’s visual style and the pounding monotony of Thomas Newman’s score that their exit is blocked." a delusion they cling to like a lifeline and that registers as mutual neurosis and a symptom of some vague larger social ill. They don’t have much sympathy for each other and Yates has next to none though by the time his sad sad book reaches its terrible jolting climax the emotion you will probably feel most acutely is pity for the Wheelers and perhaps even for the man who has brought them to such merciless life." because much of it takes place inside the heads of its characters and because the Wheelers aren’t especially likeable and  because pessimism without obvious redemption is a tough sell. It’s hard to think of many directors who could do it justice: Nicholas Ray who in films like “On Dangerous Ground” and “In a Lonely Place” conveys an intimate acquaintance with twinned despair and self-loathing might have made it work and perhaps Paul Thomas Anderson. Mr. Mendes a British theater director and occasional dabbler in the movies —  “American Beauty ” “Road to Perdition ” “Jarhead”  —  seems like a bad choice to take on “Revolutionary Road ” though not because of a lack of talent." just two ordinary lives coming apart at the seams. Like the novel the film begins with a disastrous community theater production of “The Petrified Forest” in which April has the lead female role as the greasy-spoon waitress who dreams of going to France. The play is a flop but instead of shrugging it off with a laugh as do their next-door neighbors Milly and Shep (Kathryn Hahn and David Harbour) the Wheelers embrace the failure. They drink it in deeply and let it fill them up and then fortified by it start hurtling insults at each other turning the modest public embarrassment of a local play gone wrong into an affirmation of their mutual contempt and loathing." ” a waxworks edition of the corrosive furiously unsentimental novel by Richard Yates about an unhappy marriage. Set in the lonely-crowd milieu of 1955 though published in 1961 the novel tracks the  unraveling of Frank and April Wheeler a handsome young couple who have been trying and failing to keep disappointment at bay by pretending that despite their suburban address  —  despite a life calibrated to the commuter rail schedule their two small children well-stocked bar and picture window that looks over a front lawn as manicured as a cemetery  — they are not like everyone else." uncertain panicked face he shows you what a dreamer without a dream looks like. Ms. Winslet who’s married to Mr. Mendes has a tougher time with April who comes across as something of a noble sufferer when as a minor character (a memorable Michael Shannon) cannily intuits she has always played an active part in the Wheeler Family Tragedy. Mr. Mendes stages this tragedy grandly symbolically  —  in one scene he places April and Frank in front of their car headlights to emphasize that they’re playing a role  —  forgetting that this isn’t just theater but also something like life." 
6630
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/26/movies/26page.html
dreams breakdowns freakouts sequins glitter and fabulous falsies of the Miss Gay America pageant an annual competition for female impersonators who are every bit as dedicated (and hysterical) as mainstream beauty queens." within the context of drag just as traditional as their scepter-wielding sisters. Not for these divas the punk-inflected stylings you find on the cutting edge of the drag scene. This is female impersonation of the old school: lip-synching Hollywood glamour Liza Judy and Fosse Fosse Fosse!" Clay Westervelt; edited by William Haughse and James Cude; music by Rob Johnson; released by Illusion Arts Productions. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." and it’s touching in a goofy sort of way to see how seriously everyone takes it. Directed by Ron Davis and Stewart Halpern “Pageant” follows a manicured handful of fiercely committed drag masters with their eyes on the prize: a tiara scepter seven grand in cash and the priceless claim on bragging rights as America’s queen supreme." friends and leopard-print stilettos the hopefuls primp and tuck and rehearse their routines en route to the 34th competition in Memphis. The location inspires one contestant to call for a moment of silence for the victims of Hurricane Katrina but for the most part the festivities are more in line with the pantomime by a plus-size diva (“Call me Pork Chop — everybody does!”) to an inevitable round of “And I Am Telling You.” Dream girl dream." 
6631
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/26/movies/26bash.html
passed out on the deck of a transport boat dreams of a giant naked woman who climbs out of the water and cradles him in her arms. At other times rough cynical pop songs (with lyrics like “Good Morning Lebanon” and “Today I Bombed Beirut”) play out over montages of chaos and destruction. Mr. Folman is haunted by a weird recollection of naked soldiers walking onto the beach in Beirut as the city’s bombed-out skyline is illuminated by flares." in “Maus ” turned an unlikely medium — the talking-animal comic book — into a profound and original vehicle for contemplation of the Holocaust. Similarly Mr. Folman crucially assisted by his art director David Polonsky and director of animation Yoni Goodman has adapted techniques often (if unfairly) dismissed as trivial into an intense and revealing meditation on a historical catastrophe and its aftermath. “Waltz With Bashir” will certainly enrich and complicate your understanding of its specific subject — the Lebanon War and in particular the massacre of Palestinians by Lebanese Phalangist fighters at the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps — but it may also change the way you think about how movies can confront history." culled from admittedly unreliable memories but it is precisely their subjectivity that makes them so vivid and authentic. “Waltz With Bashir” is not and could not be the definitive account of the Lebanon war or the Sabra and Shatila massacres. Instead it’s a collage and an inquiry. “Can’t a film be therapeutic?” one of Mr. Folman’s friends asks him early in the movie and in a way everything that follows is an attempt to answer that question and interrogate its premise. It depends on what is meant by therapy and on who is undergoing it." David Polonsky; director of animation Yoni Goodman; edited by Nili Feller; music by Max Richter; produced by Mr. Folman Yael Nahlieli Ms.  Folman Serge Lalou Gerhard Meixner and Roman Paul; released by Sony Pictures Classics. In Hebrew with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes." “Waltz With Bashir” has attracted a lot of attention and a measure of controversy some of it surrounding the very last moments of the film in which the animation stops and the audience is confronted with graphic horrifying images of real dead bodies. This ending shows just how far Mr. Folman is prepared to go not in the service of shock for its own sake but rather in his pursuit of clarity and truth." creating something that is not only unique but also exemplary a work of astonishing aesthetic integrity and searing moral power." who has worked on more conventional documentaries in the past decide to use animation in this one? The answer to the question is another question: How else could he have recorded dreams hallucinations and distorted memories his own and those of other veterans? The core of “Waltz With Bashir” is a series of conversations between the director depicted with graying hair and a thoughtful demeanor and other middle-aged Israeli men who were in Lebanon in the summer of 1982 when the Israeli Defense Forces pushed up through the southern part of the country toward Beirut. Most of them were in the western part of that city from the 16th to the 18th of September when Christian militiamen slaughtered as many as 3 000 civilians ostensibly to avenge the death of Bashir Gemayel Lebanon’s newly elected president who had been assassinated a few days before." witnessing the slaughter and allowing it to continue. And this ethical question becomes more and more urgent as Mr. Folman’s patient probing brings him closer to the awful facts his mind had suppressed for so long." whose dialogue has been dubbed.) One lives in the Netherlands where he owns a chain of falafel restaurants. Another appears in a martial arts studio. Others reminisce in their apartments or in bars and as each tells his story the scene dissolves and we see a younger version of the same man — usually leaner perhaps cleaner-shaven or not as bald but still recognizable — in the nightmarish landscape of war. The freedom afforded by animation — a realm where the prosaic standards of verisimilitude and the inconvenient laws of physics can be flouted at will — allows Mr. Folman to blend grimly literal images with surreal flights of fantasy humor and horror." an Israeli filmmaker whose struggle to make sense of his experience as a soldier in the Lebanon war of 1982 shapes its story “Waltz” is by no means the world’s only animated documentary a phrase that sounds at first like a cinematic oxymoron. Movies like Richard Linklater’s “Waking Life” and Brett Morgen’s “Chicago 10” have used animation to make reality seem more vivid and more strange producing odd and fascinating experiments." which  found the military indirectly responsible for the actions of the Phalangists." and who came home from the war to lives of relative normalcy and tranquillity have the time and  the means to reflect to explore to engage in therapy. The victims are beyond any of that and the blunt literalness of this film’s denouement is a reminder of that unbridgeable gap between the living and the dead. It is also Mr. Folman’s way of acknowledging that imagination has its limits and that even the most ambitious and serious work of art will come up short against the brutal facts of life." a history lesson a combat picture a piece of investigative journalism and an altogether amazing film." sex and brief nudity." 
6632
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/25/movies/25butt.html
played by Ms. Blanchett from impetuous ingénue to near ghost with an almost otherworldly mixture of hauteur and heat. The story of Benjamin’s life is read to Daisy by her daughter (Julia Ormond) in a New Orleans hospital room in 2005 just as Hurricane Katrina is approaching the city. The imminence of the storm is a superfluous and unduly portentous device since Katrina brings to mind precisely the hard real-life miseries the movie has done everything in its power to avoid." though is something to be reckoned with and it resides in Mr. Fincher’s ability to use his unbelievable skills to turn an incredible conceit into a plausible love story. The romance between Daisy and Benjamin begins when both are chronologically pre-adolescents and Benjamin is physically a codger but the initial element of pedophilic creepiness in the relationship gives way to other forms of awkwardness. Their love is uniquely perfect and enduring. At the same time like any other love — like any movie — it is shadowed by disappointment and fated to end. In the case of “Benjamin Button ” I was sorry when it was over and happy to have seen it." a dancer bohemian and all-around free spirit who ages gracefully before our eyes into a stately modern matron and then into a wasted breathless old woman. Mr. Pitt for the most part plays Benjamin who is born looking like a man in his 70s into a prominent New Orleans family in 1918. I say for the most part because near the end of the movie Mr. Pitt is replaced by younger and younger children and also because at the beginning he is evoked by an uncanny computer-generated confection that seems to have been distilled from his essence. This creature tiny and wizened is at once boy and man but in every scene the ratio is readjusted until the strapping figure of a familiar movie star emerges gradually and all but imperceptibly." though “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button” is a triumph of technique. Building on the advances of pioneers like Steven Spielberg Peter Jackson and Robert Zemeckis — and on his own previous work adapting newfangled means to traditional cinematic ends — Mr. Fincher (“Fight Club ” “Zodiac”) has added a dimension of delicacy and grace to digital filmmaking. While it stands on the shoulders of breakthroughs like “Minority Report ” “The Lord of the Rings” and “Forrest Gump” (for which Mr. Roth wrote the screenplay) “Benjamin Button” may be the most dazzling such hybrid yet precisely because it is the subtlest. While he does treat the audience to a few grand special-effect showpieces Mr. Fincher concentrates his ingenuity on the setting and the characters in particular — and most arrestingly — on the faces of his stars Cate Blanchett and Brad Pitt." his elusiveness from one film to the next is starting to look more defensive than daring. His recent performances have been devoted mainly to the study of his own magnetism a quality he earnestly explores in “The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford” and playfully subverts in “Burn After Reading.” It goes without saying that Mr. Pitt has charisma to burn and he is a capable and inventive actor but he will only be a great one if he risks breaking himself open on screen as he did briefly in “Babel.”" abandoned at birth by his stricken father (Jason Flemyng) and raised by the infinitely kind caretaker of a nursing home (Taraji P. Henson) is harder to grasp than his outer appearance in part because Mr. Pitt seems more interested in the nuances of reticence than in the dynamics of expression. It’s true that Benjamin’s condition imposes a certain detachment: he is at once innocent and ancient almost never who he appears to be." with a few divagations in a straight line through the decades of Benjamin Button’s life the backward vector of that biography turns this “Curious Case” into a genuine mystery. And the puzzles it invites us to contemplate — in consistently interesting if not always dramatically satisfying ways — are deep and imposing concerning the passage of time the elusiveness of experience and the Janus-faced nature of love." somewhat unpromising kernel the director David Fincher and the screenwriter Eric Roth have cultivated a lush romantic hothouse bloom a film that shares only a title and a basic premise with its literary source. “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button ” more than two and a half hours long sighs with longing and simmers with intrigue while investigating the philosophical conundrums and emotional paradoxes of its protagonist’s condition in a spirit that owes more to Jorge Luis Borges than to Fitzgerald." ” which occupies around 25 pages in the collected works of F. Scott Fitzgerald is a slender piece of whimsy a charming fantasy about a man who ages in reverse descending through the years from newborn senescence to terminal infancy. As Fitzgerald unravels it Benjamin’s story serves as the pretext for some amusing fairly superficial observations about child rearing undergraduate behavior and courtship in the late 19th and early 20th centuries." based on a screen story by Mr. Roth and Robin Swicord and the short story by F. Scott Fitzgerald; director of photography Claudio Miranda; edited by Kirk Baxter and Angus Wall; music by Alexandre Desplat; production designer Donald Graham Burt; produced by Kathleen Kennedy Frank Marshall and Cean Chaffin; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 47 minutes." while Benjamin’s progress through life drives the narrative of “The Curious Case ” he is (as the title suggests) more an object of contemplation than a flesh-and-blood (or bit-and-byte) candidate for our empathy. His jaunt through the 20th century is certainly fun to watch with an episodic rhythm that recalls old movie serials or even more the endlessly dilated adventures of newspaper comic-strip heroes. After some initiation into the pleasures of the flesh and the bottle in the city of his birth Young Button (Old Button) hires onto a tramp steamer. He tarries a while in Russia sampling caviar and adultery (with a superbly soignée Tilda Swinton) before World War II intrudes." Cate Blanchett (Daisy) Taraji P. Henson (Queenie) Julia Ormond (Caroline) Jason Flemyng (Thomas Button) Elias Koteas (Monsieur Gateau) Tilda Swinton (Elizabeth Abbott) and Jared Harris (Captain Mike)." finally no Forrest Gump — and though he is a white Southerner raised by a black woman he seems untouched by racial turmoil or by much of anything beyond the mysteries of his peculiar destiny." 
6633
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/25/movies/25valk.html
while some of the Nazi diehards are played by Germans which wouldn’t be worth mentioning if this cacophony of accents weren’t so distracting. But as with the casting of Mr. Cruise whose German voice-over quickly eases into English this international acting community invokes an earlier studio age when Peter Lorre and Claude Rains delivered their lines in exotically flavored English and everyone pretended that Rick’s Cafe really was located in Casablanca and not on a back lot. If Mr. Cruise doesn’t work in “Valkyrie ” it’s partly because he’s too modern too American and way too Tom Cruise to make sense in the role but also because what passes for movie realism keeps changing sometimes faster than even a star can change his brand." his attention to the gloss gleam and glamour of the image can be agreeably pleasurable he tends to gild every lily. Hitler (David Bamber) doesn’t need spooky music or low camera angles to be villainous: he just has to show up. Mr. Singer’s fondness for exaggeration can even undercut his strongest scenes as when Stauffenberg visits Hitler to secure approval for the rewritten Valkyrie plan. If implemented the plan will bring down the Führer who for his part seems intent on bringing down the house with leers and popping eyeballs. Mr. Singer appears to have taken cues here from “Black Book ” Paul Verhoeven’s World War II romp but he’s too serious to make such vaudeville work." Newton Thomas Sigel; edited by John Ottman; music by Mr. Ottman; production designers Lilly Kilvert and Patrick Lumb; produced by Mr. Singer Mr. McQuarrie and Gilbert Adler; released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures and United Artists. Running time: 2 hours." Kenneth Branagh (Maj. Gen.  Henning von Tresckow) Bill Nighy (Gen.  Friedrich Olbricht) Tom Wilkinson (Gen. Friedrich Fromm) Carice van Houten (Nina von Stauffenberg) Thomas Kretschmann (Maj.  Otto Ernst Remer) Terence Stamp (Gen. Ludwig Beck) Eddie Izzard (Gen.  Erich Fellgiebel) Kevin R.  McNally (Dr. Carl Goerdeler) Jamie Parker (Lieut. Werner von Haeften) Christian Berkel (Col.  Mertz von Quirnheim) David Bamber (Adolf Hitler) Tom Hollander (Col.  Heinz Brandt) David Schofield (Erwin von Witzleben) Kenneth Cranham (Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel) and Halina Reijn (Margarethe von Oven)." ” though Hitler and Goebbels skulk about in a few scenes shooting dark ominous looks at the heroic German Army officer played by Tom Cruise. Perhaps they’re wondering what this Hollywood megastar is doing in their midst a sentiment that you may come to share while watching Mr. Cruise  —  who gives a fine typically energetic performance in a film that requires nothing more of him than a profile and vigor  —  strut about as one of history’s more enigmatic players." guns and executions though little blood." a count and a colonel   who though he lost one eye an entire hand and several fingers while fighting on behalf of the Reich made several attempts to assassinate Hitler and seize control of the government. At the core of  Stauffenberg’s spectacularly ambitious plot was Valkyrie Hitler’s plan  for the mobilization of the home army that  Stauffenberg hoped to hijack in order to quash the SS and its leaders.  It didn’t work of course for  complicated reasons though also because by 1944 as William L. Shirer bluntly puts it in “The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich ” the conspirators were “terribly late.”" who hated Hitler but worshipped the Reich sacrificed himself on the dual altar of nationalism and militarism which makes him a more ambiguous figure than the one drawn in “Valkyrie.” He’s a complex character too complex for this film which like many stories of this type transforms World War II into a boy’s adventure with dashing heroes miles of black leather and crane shots of German troops in lockstep formation that would make Leni Riefenstahl flutter. It’s a war that offers moral absolutes (Nazis are evil) and narratives (Nazis are evil and should die) that seem easier to grasp than any current conflict. Truly World War II has become the moviemaker’s gift that keeps on giving whether you want it to or not." ” which might matter if  this  big-ticket production with Mr. Cruise in an eye patch and shiny shiny boots had something to do with reality. But the director Bryan Singer (of the “X-Men” franchise) and the writers Christopher McQuarrie and Nathan Alexander aren’t interested in delivering a history lesson: that’s why Ken Burns was born. Slick facile entertainment is the name of the game here as it is in all Mr. Singer’s films including “Apt Pupil” (about a Nazi war criminal and the American boy next door who outs him) and “The Usual Suspects ” an  intricately plotted story with men and guns secrets and shadows that Mr. McQuarrie wrote. The secrets have already begun swirling by the time “Valkyrie” opens with Stauffenberg stationed in North Africa bitterly recording his opposition to Hitler in a diary right before losing various body parts to the war. After his convalescence he meets Maj. Gen.  Henning von Tresckow (Kenneth Branagh) who sometime earlier tries to blow up Hitler with a bomb hidden in bottles of French liqueur. (Russian vodka might have been more effective.) Stauffenberg soon joins the conspiratorial party that includes other British class acts brandishing high military rank and speaking in lightly accented or unaccented English: Bill Nighy as Gen.  Friedrich Olbricht Tom Wilkinson as Gen. Friedrich Fromm Terence Stamp as Gen.  Ludwig Beck and Eddie Izzard as Gen. Erich Fellgiebel." 
6634
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/25/movies/25spir.html
hyper-stylized adaptation of a fabled comic book series by Will Eisner may be an exercise in futility. The only halfway interesting question is why the thing exists at all. The most plausible answer lies in its pedigree. Eisner who died in 2005 is worshiped by aficionados of what he called “sequential art” for his graphic brio literary flair and naughty wit. For his part Mr. Miller occupies a special spot in the modern geek pantheon as the author of high-gloss comics and graphic novels like “Batman: The Dark Knight Returns ” “Sin City” and “300.”" based on the comic book series by Will Eisner; director of photography Bill Pope; edited by Gregory Nussbaum; music by David Newman; art director Rosario Provenza; produced by Deborah Del Prete Gigi Pritzker and Michael E. Uslan; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." ” “The Spirit” marks Mr. Miller’s first solo effort as a director and his bold visual style is not well served by his clumsiness as a cinematic storyteller. The movie seems to be trying to combine a knowing winking sense of pop-culture history with an embrace of the more soulful aspects of that history but the result is a talky pretentious stew of film noir poses and crime-fighter clichés." Eva Mendes (Sand Saref) Sarah Paulson (Ellen) Dan Lauria (Dolan) Paz Vega (Plaster of Paris) Eric Balfour (Mahmoud) Jaime King (Lorelei) Scarlett Johansson (Silken Floss) Samuel L. Jackson (the Octopus) and Louis Lombardi (Phobos)." which can be paraphrased as stating that sooner or later every argument will come around to a Hitler analogy. A similar axiom applied to Hollywood would stipulate that every movie star must eventually dress up in a German war uniform." which is their prerogative since they are the villains. Gabriel Macht who plays the fedora-wearing skirt-chasing undead hero (a former policeman brought mysteriously back to life as a vigilante) works hard to give off an air of hard-boiled insouciance. Unfortunately whatever natural charisma he may possess is disguised by his  hat his mask and the murky shadows of the mise-en-scène." in spite of its efforts to be sly sexy heartfelt and clever all at once. Or perhaps the movie flounders because its multiple ambitions are fundamentally at odds like the various femmes fatale and otherwise who do battle for the hero’s heart." interminable minutes of “The Spirit” yield exactly two memorable moments: when one of Mr. Jackson’s genetically engineered minions (all played by Louis Lombardi) appears as a tiny hopping foot with a head grafted on to it supplying an odd creepy morsel of Surrealism; and when Eva Mendes playing a character called Sand Saref sits on a copy machine and presses the button. She produces what may be the only true-to-life image in the movie as well as the most interesting." ” by the way a film that upholds this rule with respect to the special case of Tom Cruise. I’m just trying to figure out why somewhere in the middle of “The Spirit ” Samuel L. Jackson and Scarlett Johansson arrive on screen decked out in swastikas and jackboots. Nothing in the logic of the film explains it but then to use the phrase “the logic of the film” when talking about “The Spirit” may be to take the “oxy” out of “oxymoronic.”" 
6635
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/25/movies/25marl.html
one of which drives John temporarily out of the house the screenplay glosses over their domestic crises to convey the fantasy of a marriage that is mostly smooth sailing save for Jenny’s exhaustion after the birth of their third child. (The possibility of post-partum depression is cautiously broached then dropped as though too hot to handle.) Most of the time the Grogans get along fine largely because John is a laid-back dude verging on a doormat. As for the couple’s romantic chemistry there is plenty of cuddling but little heat." the rearing of an untrained but unfailingly loyal pet who John likes to boast is “the world’s worst dog ” is portrayed as a relationship in which Marley teaches his master valuable life lessons. These include tolerating frustration and remembering to live in the moment while building a family — wisdom not conveyed by the movie." but the film makes little of them. After Marley’s failure at dog-training school he is pretty much allowed to destroy at his leisure while his owners express amused exasperation. The deepening emotional bond between the Grogans and Marley is simply taken for granted." the no-nonsense household boss is mercifully forgiving and appealingly curvaceous beneath her surface perkiness she is awfully dull; early on the movie conveniently forgets she is a journalist. Mr. Wilson’s John verges on stupefied. His  vague drawling passive-aggression and dazed chipmunk smile are not traits usually associated with an aspiring hard-news journalist who finds his niche writing a humorous column about his incorrigible dog." ” the bland obsequious adaptation of John Grogan’s best-selling memoir of his up-and-down relationship with an unruly Labrador retriever is to tune in to an era that seems so close and yet so distant. In those naïve old days — the 1990s through the first part of this century — Florida real estate boomed newspapers flourished and the heavens rained money." after nearly a decade and a half have passed and the Grogans and their three model children have moved to a greeting-card perfect stone house with a barn in rural Pennsylvania the years seem not to have touched them. Mr. Wilson’s blond surfer locks remain unflecked with gray. The waistline of Ms. Aniston’s Jenny after bearing three children shows no sign of a bulge." Jennifer Aniston (Jenny Grogan) Eric Dane (Sebastian Tunney) Alan Arkin (Arnie Klein) and Kathleen Turner (Ms. Kornblut)." nobody in the movie including the Grogan children seems deeply wrenchingly attached to any other creature. Life is lived more habitually than passionately." based on the book by John Grogan; director of photography Florian Ballhaus; edited by Mark Livolsi; music by Theodore Shapiro; production designer Stuart Wurtzel; produced by Karen Rosenfelt and Gil Netter; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 2 hours 5 minutes." directed by David Frankel (“The Devil Wears Prada”) plays by the rules of Hollywood John and Jenny Grogan (Owen Wilson and Jennifer Aniston) never age. The Grogans golden-fleeced journalists move from Kalamazoo Mich. to West Palm Beach Fla. where they adopt a yellow Lab that John names Marley (after Bob). Except for the occasional thunderstorm that freaks out the neurotic dog the weather in Florida is always sunny with low humidity." only that a fixture in the Grogans’ comfortable suburban lives has been removed. They will get over the loss in no time." his best friend at the newspaper but makes sure that the slick preening Sebastian comes across as a toxic bachelor not worth envying. As John’s gruff editor with a heart of gold Alan Arkin serenely works his familiar curmudgeonly shtick." and a potentially uproarious comic encounter between human and beast is thrown away." and Marley’s death scene might upset young children." 
6636
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/25/movies/25harv.html
seduced by its two wily leads I reluctantly gave in to this imperfect movie despite the cornball dialogue pedestrian filmmaking some wincing physical comedy and Mr. Hoffman’s habit of trying to win the audience over by simply staring at the camera with a hapless deadpan that says: Look at me I’m still cute as a button still cute as Benjamin in   “The Graduate ” and I’m still kind of lost and still very much in need of your love. I have a habit of falling for Mr. Hoffman’s puppy dog look even if it’s now worn by a grizzled hound though the actor a well-practiced thief of scenes and entire movies obviously takes very good care of himself even when cast opposite a formidable opponent like Ms. Thompson." but Ms. Thompson can certainly make off with a scene with the stealth of a Riviera jewel thief as she does in the romantic comedy “Love Actually ”  in which her character swallows her pride and stiffens her lip when she realizes that her beloved husband is a two-timing bum. She’s laden with a few similarly noble-masochist moments in “Last Chance Harvey ” which finds her trying to hold onto Kate’s pride even as the screenplay chips away at the character’s dignity. In one wincing sequence Kate ends up on an unlikely blind date with a younger man who quickly starts eyeballing a juicier prospect a situation that seems strictly engineered for her maximum humiliation." a near-chance encounter that suggests that Mr. Hopkins wants to say something about fate or has watched the romantic comedy “Serendipity ” another story about passing ships.  After much cutting between Harvey and Kate’s lonely parallel lives the rumpled American divorcé and starchy British singleton finally get some face time at a restaurant where a spark ignites amid several glasses of booze and teasing chatter. They consequently set off on a peripatetic flirtation that takes them along the Thames and to his daughter’s wedding reception where Harvey delivers a speech about love and forgiveness so shameless fraudulent and maddeningly effective that I wanted to hurl a shoe at his head." Dustin Hoffman and Emma Thompson don’t make a lot of sense as a screen couple. But there’s something irresistible about watching two people fall in love even in contrived sniffle- and sometimes gag-inducing films like “Last Chance Harvey ” which means that when he looks at her and she looks at him there’s a good chance that they won’t be the only ones in the theater falling for all the hokey lines and shy glances." Emma Thompson (Kate) Eileen Atkins (Maggie) Liane Balaban (Susan) James Brolin (Brian) and Kathy Baker (Jean)." John de Borman; edited by Robin Sales; production designer Jon Henson; produced by Tim Perell and Nicola Usborne; released by Overture Films. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." but Ms. Thompson exudes such warmth and humor and basic human vitality that it’s hard to buy this Miss Lonely Hearts  act. (She invests her character with far more life than does Mr. Hopkins.) But she gives it a go putting on the mask of a woman who quietly beaten down by too many disappointments has assumed the somewhat glazed aspect of polite resignation. Every so often that face crumples  and you see all of Kate’s thwarted desires and closely held hurts etched into every fissure. To watch this face fall apart against an onslaught of love and to disintegrate along with it may make you feel like a first-class sucker but sometimes even cardboard valentines have sharp arrows." largely because the writer and director Joel Hopkins initially keeps his two main characters apart in order to milk their respective loneliness for maximum pathos. The story opens with Harvey Shine (Mr. Hoffman) a frustrated jazz pianist who writes jingles for a living struggling to hold onto his gig while en route to his daughter’s wedding in London. By the time he has landed and breezed past an airline employee who is trying to snare deplaned  passengers with a weary smile a clipboard and  a questionnaire the movie has introduced the woman who will change his life: that conveniently situated clipboard wrangler Kate (Ms. Thompson)." 
6637
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/25/movies/25bedt.html
an inept businessman whose cozy motel once occupied the lot where Skeeter’s current employer has erected an upscale resort. Gone along with the homespun vibe is Skeeter’s dream of one day running the property; so when his divorced sister Wendy (a frighteningly taut Courteney Cox) asks him to baby-sit for his young niece and nephew (Laura Ann Kesling and Jonathan Morgan Heit) for a few days Skeeter is in no mood to play scallywag uncle." but “Bedtime Stories” refuses to be juiced; soured by its enervated star and uninspired writing the movie offers only tiny moments of joy like a hailstorm of gumballs that’s unexpectedly magical." Skeeter and the rest of the cast are dragged through a variety of threadbare fantasies — an Old West showdown a medieval joust a chariot race in ancient Greece — in which Skeeter inevitably bests the villain and bags the girl. The adorable Keri Russell as the unfortunate target of Skeeter’s passive-aggressive affections is the movie’s soft center and sole pleasure: a locus of calm in a sea of turmoil." ” he tells his incredulous charges when story time comes around. Luckily for the tykes their director Adam Shankman loves them the happier the better. (Even as a guest judge on “So You Think You Can Dance” Mr. Shankman a popular choreographer squirmed mightily to avoid delivering a bad critique.)" pushing Skeeter’s broom doesn’t agree with Mr. Sandler who seems impatient with immaturity and anxious to grow up. He was much happier selling novelty toilet plungers in “Punch-Drunk Love ” but the director of that movie Paul Thomas Anderson recognized his star’s natural inner rage and how to tap into it encouraging a revelatory performance unlike anything on his résumé." Keri Russell (Jill) Guy Pearce (Kendall) Russell Brand (Mickey) Richard Griffiths (Barry Nottingham) Jonathan Pryce (Marty Bronson) Courteney Cox (Wendy) Lucy Lawless (Aspen) Laura Ann Kesling (Bobbi) Jonathan Morgan Heit (Patrick) Teresa Palmer (Violet Nottingham) and Aisha Tyler (Donna Hynde)." angry dwarves and a Booger Monster." he labors to whip life into a screenplay (by Matt Lopez and Tim Herlihy) so tired even Bugsy the children’s pop-eyed guinea pig is moved to tuck himself into bed." he needs directors who understand his uncommon gifts. The toilet plungers are optional." I hope be brief including Lucy Lawless as a brittle desk clerk and Russell Brand as Skeeter’s fuzzily written best friend. And if there were an Oscar for miscasting Guy Pearce’s atrocious turn as the hotel’s pompous manager would be a lock. Mugging beneath a horrendous coif he makes Basil Fawlty look like a paragon of restraint." based on a story by Mr. Lopez; director of photography Michael Barrett; edited by Tom Costain and Michael Tronick; music by Rupert Gregson-Williams; production designer Linda Descenna; produced by Andrew Gunn Adam Sandler and Jack Giarraputo; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." he’s too old to continue with the bungling man-child shtick of yore yet too young to transition to old-fogey infantilism. In “Bedtime Stories” the pain of this artistic limbo is written all over his character a resentful hotel handyman named Skeeter. Astonishingly his name is not the source of his umbrage." 
6638
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/24/movies/24grai.html
along with four decades of French social and economic history is recapitulated as a lavish hectic dinner complete with music and belly dancing. It will leave you stunned and sated having savored an intimate and sumptuous epic of elation and defeat jealousy and tenderness life and death grain and fish." the sad still center of “The Secret of the Grain ” Abdellatif Kechiche’s bustling and brilliant new film might be described as an accidental patriarch. A stubborn taciturn immigrant from Tunisia Slimane (Habib Boufares) has spent 35 years working in the shipyards of Sète a rough little French port city on the Mediterranean coast." as it were of its deep and complex flavor — lies in the close tireless enthusiastic attention it pays to the most mundane daily tasks especially those involving food." you could say that Slimane’s tragedy is that having worked so hard for so long he is left with so little. The couscous restaurant represents his last stand his grand gesture of protest against a hard fate and its opening night teetering on the tightrope between triumph and calamity is Mr. Kechiche’s tour de force." Hafsia Herzi (Rym) Faridah Benkhetache (Karima) Abdelhamid Aktouche (Hamid) Bouraouïa Marzouk (Souad) Hatika Karaoui (Latifa) and Alice Houri (Julia)." too unpredictable too hard and too fascinating. Even as Slimane’s story is one of frustration and unfulfilled ambition — after his hours at the shipyard are cut back he pursues the quixotic dream of converting an abandoned boat into a dockside couscous restaurant — “The Secret of the Grain” bursts with exuberance and irrepressible sensuality. This is mostly thanks to the women in the movie who through charm guile and sheer force of will turn the austere fable of their melancholy paterfamilias into a party. It is not that they are naturally carefree but rather that their cares are so tightly woven into their lives that the only practical alternative to despair is an unruly militant joy." ” in which the exalted idiom of Classical French literature collided and commingled with the polyglot vernacular of the modern French suburbs Mr. Kechiche declines to dole out obvious easily assimilated lessons." Souad and Rym are at once Slimane’s foils — their bodies are as curvy as his is gaunt while their frank abundant talk serves as counterpoint to his decorous silence — and the pillars on which he leans for support. They protect his dignity by declining to point out just how much he depends on them and allowing him to believe that the opposite is true." Karima (Faridah Benkhetache); and Latifa. Their freezers are overflowing with the mullet that is in Tunisian tradition served with couscous the grain of this film’s title. (In France where the movie won four César awards earlier this year the secret is omitted and the film is known simply as “La Graine et le Mulet.”) When Souad cooks up a batch to feed various kids friends and in-laws she puts aside a serving for Slimane who eats it in the spartan quarters he shares with a semimetaphorical caged bird." after directing three features (“La Faute à Voltaire” and “L’Esquive” before this one) as one of the most vital and interesting filmmakers working in France today. In “The Secret of the Grain” he immerses us in the hectic tender sometimes painful details of work and domesticity. The camera bobs and fidgets in crowded rooms full of noisy people so that your senses are flooded with the warmth and stickiness of Slimane and Souad’s family circle. The scenes though they feel improvised at times almost accidentally recorded have a syncopated authenticity for which the sturdy old word realism seems inadequate." even if his anarchic methods have more in common with those of a post-’60s skeptical realist like Mike Leigh than with the old Italian masters. “The Secret of the Grain” is in some ways the descendant of a movie like “Rocco and His Brothers ” Luchino Visconti’s long gloriously novelistic 1960 melodrama about a family of migrants that travels from southern Italy to work in the factories of the north." for example over a toilet-training-related battle of wills between a mother and her 2-year-old and then pause later to observe a discussion of the same subject among a group of adults at a party. But when Mr. Kechiche does just that you may wonder why so few have bothered before. After all the messy particulars of child rearing preoccupy every family in every culture and provide an inexhaustible vein of humor anxiety and contention." when men and women like Slimane and Souad left the newly liberated North African French colonies to seek their fortunes in metropolitan France a country they regarded as both benefactor and oppressor. In the decades since France has reluctantly claimed them and their children as citizens even as it has stigmatized and marginalized them and this mutual ambivalence is the implicit subject of this movie and its unstated context. (Mr. Kechiche was born in Tunis  in 1960.)" cantankerous family — his former wife Souad (Bouraouïa  Marzouk) and their assorted children and grandchildren — live mostly in a battered high-rise housing project. Slimane meanwhile keeps a modest room in the blue-collar hotel run by his lover Latifa (Hatika Karaoui) and her 20-year-old daughter Rym (the amazing Hafsia Herzi) on whom he dotes as if she were his own." so committed to the idea of his own strength and resilience is in the end so fragile." Lubomir Bakchev; edited by Ghalya Lacroix and Camille Toubkis; produced by Claude Berri; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. In French and Arabic with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 31 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6639
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/24/movies/24war.html
Mr. Kushner Ms. Streep and the rest of the laboring artists in “Theater of War” refuse to “let it be.” You don’t get the sense for a moment that they believe a play can end a war even one born in flames but that doesn’t mean they’re going to stop hauling their own weight." who as a former Brecht assistant offers insight into his working habits — discuss art as if it matters (because it does) and without the self-flattering grandiosity that sometimes emerges when the subject turns to actors. But because this is also a document of an actress actually at work much of the movie’s pleasure comes from watching another brilliant performance take shape as Ms. Streep tries out different line readings gestures and poses in her search for Mother Courage. It’s a transformation — “I’m the voice of dead people ” the actress explains “I’m the interpreter of lost songs” — that doesn’t fully emerge until she delivers the devastating “Song of the Great Capitulation” to a young soldier." Mr. Walter works through his subjects (art activism war theater) associatively circling around them. Images of Mr. Kushner riding his bicycle somehow lead logically and seamlessly to Iraq war protesters on their bicycles. Although the movie includes a fair share of talking heads (including that of the novelist Jay Cantor who delivers a mini-course on Marxism threaded through the movie) as a filmmaker Mr. Walter always remembers to show and not just tell. Among the highlights: some wonderful home-movie fragments of Brecht with his young family and choice clips from his fascinating (sometimes funny) testimony before the House Un-American Activities Committee which the theater director Carl Weber laughingly terms a “brilliant performance.”" as a matter of course about Brecht. He wrote the landmark “Mother Courage” in the late ’30s while in exile in Scandinavia having left Germany in 1933 soon after Hitler was appointed chancellor.  Set against the Thirty Years’ War and opening in 1624 the play pivots on Mother Courage a war profiteer who sells goods to soldiers from her canteen wagon. (“Boots they will march in until they die!”) In time she loses her three children to the war yet she holds on to her wagon which she drags behind her like a coffer (or coffin). Though it is often described as a war play the theater critic and Brecht translator Eric Bentley has countered that it is actually a business play." inspiring essayistic documentary “Theater of War ” the filmmaker John Walter jumps from art to history and politics and back again from the theater of the streets to the theater of the stage without pause. That makes the movie which follows a Public Theater production in Central Park of Bertolt Brecht’s epic play “Mother Courage and Her Children ” tough to summarize which is part of its appeal. Because while the movie is about a particular staging of “Mother Courage ” it is also about the war in Iraq theater (and bicycle riding) as social protest the necessity and futility of art and the agonizing human failing that Mother Courage gives voice to in “The Song of the Great Capitulation.”" who directed the highly recommended 2002 documentary “How to Draw a Bunny ” about Ray Johnson the collagist and pioneer of mail art.  Money makes the world go around including at the Public Theater where Mr. Walter spends time with a costumer and a prop man two workers whose labor (which doesn’t appear especially alienated)  was instrumental to the 2006 production of “Mother Courage” under his lens. Receiving even more face time is Tony Kushner who did the new translation for this production and Meryl Streep who starred in the title role and agreed to let Mr. Walter shoot the rehearsals as she groped around for — and then ferociously seized — her character." Felix Andrew and Mr. Walter; music by Robert Miller; produced by Nina Santisi; released by White Buffalo Entertainment/Theater of War LLC. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas West Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." which traces the path from idealism to cynicism pushes the movie into a darker register where it needs to go to do justice to Brecht his work his years in exile and all the people who continue to keep him alive on and off the stage. “Push comes to shove./Soon you fall down from the grandstand ” sings Mother Courage. “And then: It’s all downhill./Your fall was God’s will./Better let it be.”" 
6640
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/19/movies/19belg.html
Jurgen Delnaet (Johnny) Johan Heldenbergh (Werner) Anemone Valcke (Vera) Sofia Ferri (Fien) and Julian Borsani (Peter)." Werner (Johan Heldenbergh) who teaches art left her several months earlier to live with a 22-year-old student and Matty is still smarting. In her tense encounters with Werner she refers to his midlife crisis with bitter sarcasm. Although their marriage hasn’t officially ended Matty behaves as  if she  is already resigned to living the rest of her life without a man. As the movie follows her around it is very specific about the age social status personal history and romantic suitability of every man she encounters." chicken stew on another. Vera (Anemone Valcke) is a mildly rebellious girl about to turn 17 who is dating another girl her own age;  that Vera might be gay doesn’t seem to bother Matty. The younger daughter Fien (Sofia Ferri) experiments with tarot cards and offers impromptu readings to which Matty gives a little more credence than they probably deserve; her third child Peter (Julian Borsani) also pre-adolescent hopes  to be a pilot someday." Johnny (Jurgen Delnaet) exchange threats and insults their rage subsides and they negotiate with guarded civility. The next day when he arrives unbidden to repair the minor damage to her car he asks her out for a drink. A wary courtship develops:  Johnny whose girlfriend left him for a well-to-do lawyer ardently pursues Matty;  she after offering stiff resistance succumbs to his advances against her better judgment." impulsive lover longing to be re-awakened. The minute Werner learns there might be another man in her life he is seized with possessive jealousy and campaigns to be taken back. In the movie’s funniest (but also queasy-making) scene Werner and Johnny verbally joust over chicken stew." especially in a recurrent post office motif “Moscow Belgium” is too tidy. But even then it is psychologically accurate. If you have observed its banal situations in countless other movies not to mention in your own life it is unusual to find them explored with such matter-of-fact truthfulness. Matty Johnny and Werner are uncomfortably familiar versions of ourselves." BELGIUM" the central character in the Belgian director Christophe van Rompaey’s small serious comedy “Moscow Belgium.” A blond slightly bedraggled 41-year-old mother of three  (think of Frances McDormand with Joni Mitchell hair) Matty works in a post office and lives in a factorylike housing development in Ledeberg a working-class neighborhood on the outskirts of Ghent." Johnny has decided that most women are “bloodsuckers ” but she is different he insists. Good-natured most of the time he has a history of violence especially when drinking (he is now a teetotaler) and the scary moments in which he loses control give Matty serious pause." Ruben Impens; edited by Alain Dessauvage; music by Tuur Florizoone; art director Steven Liegeois; produced by Mr. van  Rijckeghem; released by NeoClassics Film Ltd. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. In Flemish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6641
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/19/movies/19yes.html
sexual references and brief nudity." ” dutifully directed by Peyton Reed (“Bring  It On ” “Down With Love”) is too sluggish and slapdash a vehicle for its star’s prodigious wackiness. The movie’s premise is not far from that of “Liar Liar ” one of Mr. Carrey’s biggest hits of the mid-’90s in which he played a chronic dissembler suddenly compelled to tell the truth. That film was a philosophical tour de force compared  with  this one which arrives at the startling conclusion that while saying no to everything is bad saying yes to everything is not ideal either." as do a few of the supporting performers notably Bradley Cooper as Carl’s best friend and Rhys Darby as his socially maladroit boss. But “Yes Man” rarely rises to genuine hilarity. It takes no risks finds no inspiration and settles like its hero into a dull noncommittal middle ground. Should you see this movie? Maybe. Whatever. I don’t care." and one of the many problems with “Yes Man” is that it is insufficiently infantile. Mr. Carrey looks too grown up too tired to plunge into the reckless silliness that the story demands and the story doesn’t really demand enough of it. Once Carl has banished no from his vocabulary what does he say yes to? Flying lessons. A class in conversational Korean. Every loan application that crosses his desk." if inadvertent topical resonance but never mind that. Some of the things Carl does are a bit wilder than learning to play the guitar. He accepts a sexual proposition from an elderly neighbor which leads to a gag that was already tired when it popped up in “Soul Men” a few months ago. He wraps his head in cellophane tape. He goes on a Red Bull binge. He provokes a fight in a bar after snorting some Tabasco sauce." ” Carl Allen is a grouch a curmudgeon a wet blanket.  His relentless negativity — his job as a loan officer provides him with plenty of opportunities to say no  — is less a matter of temperament than of circumstance: apparently Carl never recovered from the breakup of his marriage. But then a visit to a self-help seminar led by a guru (Terence Stamp) who preaches the power of yes transforms Carl into a wild unpredictable fellow a giddy spontaneous goofball a gangling motormouthed rubber-faced id. In short Carl turns into Jim Carrey." mildly eccentric cutie named Allison played by Zooey Deschanel who took on similar waif duties opposite Will Ferrell in “Elf.” The role of Mr. Carrey’s romantic counterpart is never an easy one given his manic energy and the childish narcissism that is the basis of his shtick. Only Kate Winslet engaging with a more subdued incarnation of Mr. Carrey in “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind ” has been able to distract him from himself. Ms. Deschanel never really has a chance and instead functions as a kind of sidekick breezing through some semi-funny set pieces on the way to an obligatory smiley-teary ending." 
6642
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/19/movies/19tale.html
the fairy tale becomes a story within a story. And in one clever scene which finds the mouse describing the exploits of the knight and the princess to a separate character the fairy tale plays on the wall next to him as if it were being projected like a movie." the mouse grew up though not by much to become a reader of books and the besotted friend of a lovely human princess named Pea. In time he saved the day battling an army of rats and won the hearts of millions of readers and eventually a contract with a Hollywood studio. This is how the book “The Tale of Despereaux: Being  the Story of a Mouse a Princess Some Soup and a Spool of Thread” became a computer-animated movie though without the rambling subtitle and as many eccentricities." “Despereaux” is a pleasantly immersive beautifully animated occasionally sleepy tale. Like most American animated movies it centers on a plucky hero (softly voiced by Matthew Broderick) who against the nominal odds (though really the odds are always stacked in his favor) overcomes adversity of some kind." a princess some soup and thread — not to mention rats hats and a girl named Mig  with the unfortunate looks of a pig — the movie “The Tale of Despereaux” offers up other changes too. It begins as all fairy tales should with a narrator (an efficient somewhat cool-sounding Sigourney Weaver) recounting the story of the pastel-hued Kingdom of Dor where the peasants were content the rulers were just and the rats scuttled about unmolested. The balm for this peaceable kingdom was soup a fragrant broth that flowed out of the royal kitchen and into the waiting bowls of the populace. But good times turned to bad when a rat named Roscuro (Dustin Hoffman) fell into the queen’s soup producing a fatal reaction." turning a bold little mouse into a great big hero —  a wonderful moral for any children’s book. The story he reads is a fairy tale about a sad princess and a brave knight an adventure that periodically springs to expressive life because Despereaux doesn’t merely read this tale he visualizes it so we see it too." and together they embark on the road to redemption with justice and a happily ever after for all including the princess (Emma Watson) and Mig (Tracey Ullman) a peasant whose porcine qualities suggest that ugliness is destiny. But “The Tale of Despereaux” is on the side of kindness not cruelty and it encourages smiles if not the book’s flights of fancy." the movie leans toward cute a substitution that largely speaks to the influence of Disney on animation. In the movie Despereaux wears a red cap that makes him look more like a well-dressed bunny than like a mouse. But at least he’s not wearing Mickey’s gold clodhoppers and bottom-line grin." he suffers for his specialness which in this case finds him banished from Mouseworld an orderly Lilliput to Ratworld a menacing purgatory filled with bones and introduced with a flourish of Middle Eastern flute  music. (The casbah vibe thankfully fades fast.)" the images of soup ladles carved into the palace stairs — and an agreeable gentleness. It deviates from its source material in generally modest and unobtrusive ways; for instance by reorganizing the book’s fragmented parallel story lines into a linear whole." scurrying rats a bit (or very) creepy." Newbery Medal-winning book Despereaux has to triumph over both his home life (he’s far too bold for the other mice) and the forces of darkness shrouding Dor. What’s particularly sweet about his journey is that it begins with a book he was supposed to nibble not read." Robbie Coltrane (Gregory) Frances Conroy (Antoinette) Tony Hale (Furlough) Ciaran Hinds (Botticelli) Dustin Hoffman (Roscuro) Richard Jenkins (Principal) Kevin Kline (Andre) Frank Langella (Mayor) Christopher Lloyd (Hovis) William H. Macy (Lester) Charles Shaughnessy (Pietro) Stanley Tucci (Boldo) Tracey Ullman (Miggery Sow) Emma Watson (Princess Pea) and Sigourney Weaver (Narrator)." based on a screen story by Will McRobb and Chris Viscardi and the book by Kate DiCamillo; edited by Mark Solomon; music by William Ross; production designer Evgeni Tomov; produced by Gary Ross and Allison Thomas; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. This film is rated G." 
6643
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/19/movies/19seve.html
by the way is not an exclamation of shock but rather an answer to the preceding question posed with reference to Mr. Smith. Lately he has taken so eagerly to roles predicated on heroism and world-saving self-sacrifice — see “I Am Legend” and “Hancock” — that you may wonder if he has a messiah clause in his contract. Which is not to say that he doesn’t show range in these films in which he credibly plays a research scientist a dissolute superhero and in this latest one an I.R.S. agent." ” which reunites Will Smith with Gabriele Muccino (who directed him in “The Pursuit of Happyness”) begins with a series of riddling chronologically scrambled scenes. A man calls 911 to report his own suicide. He badgers a blind call-center employee — whom we suspect will be a significant character since he’s played by Woody Harrelson — with complaints and insults. He embraces a lovely woman in an even lovelier beach house. He visits a nursing home where he terrorizes an administrator and comforts a resident." but you wouldn’t believe me and the people at Sony might not invite me to any more screenings. So instead of spelling out what happens in “Seven Pounds ” I’ll just pluck a few key words and phrases from my notes and arrange them in the kind of artful disorder Mr. Muccino seems to favor (feel free to start crying any time):" though I don’t see how any review could really spoil what may be among the most transcendently eye-poppingly call-your-friend-ranting-in-the-middle-of-the-night-just-to-go-over-it-one-more-time crazily awful motion pictures ever made. I would tell you to go out and see it for yourself but you might take that as a recommendation rather than a plea for corroboration. Did I really see what I thought I saw?" Rosario Dawson (Emily Posa) Woody Harrelson (Ezra) Barry Pepper (Dan) and Michael Ealy (Ben’s Brother)." small joke that provides a few grace notes of levity in what is otherwise a lugubrious exercise in spiritual bushwa.  For all its pious earnest air “Seven Pounds” cries out to be remade as an Asian horror movie so that the deep creepy grotesqueness of its governing premise might be allowed to flourish rather than to fester beneath the surface." Philippe Le Sourd; edited by Hughes Winborne; music by Angelo Milli; production designer J. Michael Riva; produced by Todd Black James Lassiter Jason Blumenthal Steve Tisch and Will Smith; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes." the movie is basically an inverted twisted tale of revenge. Ben Thomas Mr. Smith’s character is in essence a benevolent vigilante harassing stalking and spying on unsuspecting citizens for their own good and also to punish himself. Why such misery should also be inflicted on an innocent affirmation-hungry audience — and also on the marvelous Ms. Dawson who plays one of Ben’s victim-beneficiaries — is another matter entirely." but rather a collection of practical lessons. Don’t drive while using a BlackBerry. Fertilize your rose bushes with banana peels — sorry that was a spoiler. But please whatever you do don’t touch the jellyfish." on which someone has written “DO NOT TOUCH THE JELLYFISH.”  I wouldn’t dream of it and I’ll take the message as a warning not to divulge the astonishing things that happen not all of them involving aquatic creatures." and to tease from them the possible contours of a story. It is never unpleasant to watch Mr. Smith who likes to play peekaboo with his charm hiding it now and then behind fleeting shadows of anguish or malice. The music (Angelo Milli’s score and a handful of emotive pop songs) combines with the deep colors of Philippe Le Sourd’s cinematography to summon up intensities of sentiment not yet arrived at by the narrative creating an interesting frisson of suspense. After a while though as the pieces of the puzzle snap together curiosity gives way to incredulity." 
6644
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/17/movies/17wres.html
meanwhile was a giant in the world of pro wrestling inspiring action figures and video games and plying his brutal trade in top arenas like Madison Square Garden." the pain and the blood are frequently real. We are privy to tricks of the trade like the tiny bit of razor blade that Randy uses to open a cut on his face in the middle of a bout. And we witness a horrifying match involving broken glass barbed wire and a staple gun all of it agreed upon by the combatants." Marisa Tomei (Cassidy) and Evan Rachel Wood (Stephanie)." really but he has a genuine gift. And parts of “The Wrestler ” which was written by Robert D. Siegel are dumb in their own way or rather in the way that so many movies are. The Randy-Stephanie subplot is unpersuasive and the last few twists of the Randy-Cassidy romance verge on the preposterous. But like its hero the movie has a blunt exuberant honesty pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair." trailing behind Mr. Rourke and allowing us sidelong glances for the first few minutes of the film before disclosing the battered lumpy yet still strangely beautiful wreck of what we remember from “Diner” or “The Pope of Greenwich Village.” Damaged tired ill used as he may be — or maybe not! movies aren’t real! — Mr. Rourke is still in the wrestling sense of the word the face the magnetic pole of our interest the guy we’re rooting for." trailer parks V.F.W. halls and run-down amphitheaters of New Jersey are convincingly drab and the grain of the celluloid carries a sour and salty aura of weariness and defeat. But the story that emerges is disarmingly sweet indeed at times downright saccharine — a familiar parable of squandered hopes and second chances. It’s a bit phony perhaps but to refuse to embrace the movie’s deep hokiness would be to cheat yourself of some of the profound pleasure it offers." trading slaps across the face. When the designated bad guy lands a blow the crowd boos; when he’s on the receiving end it cheers. The basic rule is laid out succinctly by an old nemesis of Randy’s: “I’m the heel and you’re the face.”" Maryse Alberti; edited by Andrew Weisblum; music by Clint Mansell; production designer Tim Grimes; produced by Mr. Aronofsky and Scott Franklin; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." Randy is warm and avuncular praising the kid’s ability and urging him to stay in the game. Others many of them played by active or retired real-life wrestlers he refers to without affectation as “Brother.”" both the real actor and the fictional wrestler were superstars. (A monologue eulogizing that decade and cursing the one that followed has an obvious and piquant double meaning; that the speech is addressed to the character played by Marisa Tomei whose career hit some snags of its own in the later ’90s makes it all the more touching.)" ” Darren Aronofsky’s fourth feature (and winner of the top prize at the Venice Film Festival this year) cannily exploits this parallel and at the same time shows that in both movies and wrestling the line between reality and play-acting may be less clear than we assume. Shooting his battered hero mainly in trudging hand-held tracking shots Mr. Aronofsky whose earlier movies include the brain-teasing “Pi” and the swooning fantastical unwatchable “Fountain ” here makes a convincing show of brute realism." outside the ring something of a heel. He is estranged from his daughter Stephanie (Evan Rachel Wood) whose anger when he tries to reconcile suggests some major mess-ups in the past. He also has a crush on a stripper known as Cassidy (Ms. Tomei) whose lap dances and friendly chitchat he interprets as signs of reciprocated interest." played with sly hulking grace by Mickey Rourke is anything but a phony in spite of the fact that nothing about him is quite genuine. His real name which he can’t stand to hear is Robin Ramsinski; his muscles are puffed up with steroids and it’s highly doubtful that his flowing mane is naturally blond. But this careful fakery is to some extent what certifies Randy as the real thing an authentic passionate natural performer. The description fits Mr. Rourke as well." for that matter make them pop out of your head — but her job is more than an excuse to get exposed flesh other than Mr. Rourke’s up on the screen. Randy and Cassidy (it’s not her real name either) are both performers both expert at faking something the customers desperately want to believe is real. The wrestlers don’t really hate one another and the stripper doesn’t really love you." 20 years later he — Randy that is — has been relegated to shabbier halls. He has trouble making the rent on his trailer and his health is failing. His professionalism however is undiminished and the most moving and persuasive scenes in “The Wrestler” show the Ram backstage with the men who are his comrades and rivals working out the finer points of their routines with a warmth and respect completely at odds with the viciousness they display in the ring." allowing themselves to believe that those people down in the ring or up on the screen are truly inflicting pain on one another." 
6645
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/17/movies/17scot.html
it is far more interested in his later evolution into a guru of experimental pop admired by the likes of David Bowie (the movie’s executive producer) Brian Eno Radiohead Sting and Jarvis Cocker of the British band Pulp. Mr. Kijak harbors special affection for Mr. Walker’s 1969 solo album “Scott 4.” His first collection of all-original songs this alleged masterpiece was also his first commercial failure. At that time Mr. Walker’s voice a beautifully polished pop baritone suggested a hybrid of Tom Jones and Jim Morrison but with a spooky quivering vibrato." in the words of one talking head deliberately blurred “the boundary between chords and discords ” the mood of cosmic desolation that had always lurked in his singing came to the fore. Today he sounds a little like Bryan Ferry or Mr. Bowie (in his ghoulish mode) as the singing narrator of a psychological horror film." Ohio in 1943 he was the lead singer of the Walker Brothers a pop trio whose members were neither brothers nor named Walker. Their mid-’60s signature hits “Make It Easy on Yourself” and “The Sun Ain’t Gonna Shine Anymore ”  which echoed the booming blue-eyed soul of the Righteous Brothers were far more popular in Britain than in the United States." Grant Gee; edited by Mr. Gee and Mat Whitecross; produced by Mr. Kijak Mia Bays and Elizabeth Rose; released by Plexifilm. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." the trio’s public appearances aroused frenzied female adulation. In the extended interview that forms the spine of “30 Century Man ” he recalls the scary time he was trapped inside a car overturned by screaming fans." the oracular singer experimental composer British-based American expatriate and reclusive cult figure whose career is profiled in Stephen Kijak’s worshipful documentary “Scott Walker: 30 Century Man ”  adheres to a familiar rock ’n’ roll template. As a pop group matures its members’ needs for self-expression drive them to strike out on their own as soloists. John Lennon the prototypical rebel recorded his “primal scream” albums immediately after the breakup of the Beatles." Mr. Walker says his interests extended well beyond pop to Beat literature and European films especially those of Ingmar Bergman; musically he was drawn to darker moodier sounds than mainstream pop permitted. The solo albums he recorded after he left the group featured songs by Jacques Brel the impassioned Flemish singer-songwriter who was as catalytic an influence on Mr. Walker as Bob Dylan was on many of his peers." ” admits Mr. Walker who comes across as extremely shy soft-spoken and articulate. He speaks of “words coming out of silence ” as in Samuel Beckett. One commentator calls him “a poet and composer of the unconscious” whose songs follow “the logic of a dream world.”" there are hints of a man struggling with chronic depression and problems with alcohol but they are only hints. No major personal relationships are mentioned or even alluded to. The music speaks for itself. And the fragments offered from Mr. Walker’s albums “Tilt ” from 1995 and “The Drift ” from 2007 accompanied by abstract visual designs are in a word haunting." 
6646
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/17/movies/17trut.html
“Nothing but the Truth” has nothing to do with you know what or who. To be honest I was  looking forward to watching a movie about Judith Miller the former reporter from The New York Times who in 2005 was jailed for contempt of court after she refused to cooperate with a grand jury investigating the outing of Valerie Wilson (a k a Plame) as an operative for the Central Intelligence Agency. I mean that’s all terribly interesting and whatnot but I really really wanted to watch Kate Beckinsale best known for wearing fangs and tight leather pants  in the “Underworld” vampire franchise interpret Ms. Miller." whose previous films include “The Contender ” an exploration of female political power and its threat believed he was saying in this new film. “Nothing but the Truth” has nothing much at all to do with the historical record which wouldn’t be bad if it offered something persuasive and worthwhile in return like a reckoning of journalism and its abuses. It shows Mr. Lurie ambitiously trying out some bold compositions notably two-shots in which one character’s head looms in the foreground while the second person blurs into the background and a commensurate level of narrative ambition that goes awry in the execution. Truly the greater problem is not the facts but the delivery." Kate Beckinsale (Rachel Armstrong) Angela Bassett (Bonnie Benjamin) Matt Dillon (Patton Dubois) Vera Farmiga (Erica Van Doren) David Schwimmer (Ray Armstrong) Jamey Sheridan (Oscar Van Doren)  and Noah Wyle (Avril Aaronson)." Alik Sakharov; edited by Sarah Boyd; music by Larry Groupé; production designer Eloise Stammerjohn; produced by Bob Yari Marc Frydman and Mr. Lurie; released by Yari Film Group. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." an up-and-coming reporter for The Capital Sun-Times a fictitious Washington paper Ms. Beckinsale keeps her fangs retracted and her hair generally tied in a pert little ponytail. The hair comes down once she’s locked tight inside the big bird cage where the inmates who are apparently forbidden luxuries like hair ties shout a lot and sometimes smash one another’s heads on the floor with bloody gusto. But that’s getting far ahead of Rod Lurie’s confusing film which mixes familiar plot points — including a C.I.A. agent here called Erica Van Doren and played by Vera Farmiga —  with some grievous nonsense most of which involves the two women’s irritatingly distracting home lives." because without needy children and angry fed-up husbands — David Schwimmer plays Rachel’s mewling husband while a barely present  Jamey Sheridan  plays Erica’s —  these two female characters and their  desires successes and rages apparently wouldn’t rate screen time. That’s too bad for all sorts of reasons including this one:  when not cooing inanities at pipsqueaks the actresses are pretty good both together and individually. There’s pleasure in watching them go Manolo a Manolo  against each other particularly Ms. Farmiga who fills out her size 0 with macho swagger. Despite a shaky start Ms. Beckinsale does eventually look the part of the harassed and haggard heroine if largely by not wearing any eye makeup." 
6647
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/13/movies/13jodi.html
then to settle into “Rab Ne Bana di Jodi” (“A Match Made by God”) a love story   that has a different pace and feel than the recent crop of action thrillers. “Rab ” which reteams the director Aditya Chopra and Shahrukh Khan Bollywood’s reigning superstar is “soft sweet and slow ” in the words of one of its songs. It deftly blends comedy the ruling tone of the new Bollywood with melodrama the ruling tone of the old." full of dizzying camera moves and blink-and-you’ll-miss-it editing. The technical exuberance is almost always impressive but it’s starting to seem like its own cliché." a swaggering goofball who favors tight jeans and T-shirts with slogans like “Bad Boy.” Raj becomes Taani’s partner in a dance competition (“First time in Amritsar!”) and boy meets girl all over again." “Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge ” starring Mr. Khan remains a touchstone of contemporary  Bollywood and the two do excellent work again here.   The Surinder/Raj dual role seems tailor-made (probably was) for Mr. Khan who gets to show off his twin talents: he suffers nobly and entertains with panache. And Mr. Chopra demonstrates how a director can master technology without being mastered by it. For him storytelling comes first. (The plot has its flaws but they’re not deadly.)" a shy self-described geek who works for Punjab Power in Amritsar. Surinder is gaga for his wife Taani (the newcomer Anushka Sharma) who because of various tragedies in the film’s first few minutes may have lost the ability to love or be happy." Ravi K. Chandran; edited by Ritesh Soni; music by Salim-Sulaiman; choreography by Shiamak Davar and Vaibhavi Merchant; production designer Muneesh Sappel; produced by Yash Chopra and Mr. Chopra; released by Yash Raj Films. In Hindi with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 47 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6648
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12tori.html
Daisy watching the world at a safe distance with a squint and a stream of bitter commentary. Kept at bay the remaining members of his family — including two sons with big houses big cars big waistlines — have no choice but to let him stew alone. Yet the rest of the world refuses to leave Walt be despite his best efforts and grimace. The world first creeps into his peripheral vision where a family of Hmong immigrants live in the rundown house next door; and then through a series of unfortunate events some artful and others creaking with scripted contrivance it  stages a life-altering home invasion." but “Gran Torino” doesn’t go down lightly. Despite all the jokes —  the scenes of Walt lighting up at female flattery and scrambling for Hmong delicacies —  the film has the feel of a requiem. Melancholy is etched in every long shot of Detroit’s decimated emptied streets and in the faces of those who remain to still walk in them. Made in the 1960s and ’70s the Gran Torino was never a great symbol of American automotive might which makes Walt’s love for the car more poignant. It was made by an industry that now barely makes cars in a city that hardly works in a country that too often has felt recently as if it can’t do anything right anymore except every so often make a movie like this one." totems of masculinity and mementos from a heroic cinematic age are what make this unassuming film — small in scale if not in the scope of its ideas — more than just a vendetta flick or an entertainment about a crazy coot and the exotic strangers next door. As the story unfolds and the gangbangers return and Walt reaches for his gun the film moves from comedy into drama and then tragedy and then into something completely unexpected. We’ve seen this western before though not quite. Because this isn’t John Wayne near the end of the 20th century but Clint Eastwood at the start of the still-new 21st remaking the image of the hero for one more and perhaps final time one generation of Americans making way for the next." it’s dispiriting that so many movies are disconnected from everyday experience from economic worries to race. Pauline Kael used to beat up on Stanley Kramer the director of earnest middlebrow entertainments like “Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner ” but at least these movies had a connection to real life or an idea about it. Ms. Kael also famously branded Don Siegel’s “Dirty Harry” as “deeply immoral ” even fascistic but the film became a classic because of its ambiguous engagement with American violence and masculinity. Mr. Eastwood and a .44 Magnum did their bit too." other than Mr. Eastwood a man whose vitality as an artist shows no signs of waning even in a nominally modest effort like “Gran Torino.” Part of this may be generational: Mr. Eastwood started as an actor in the old studio system back when the major movie companies were still in the business of American life rather than just international properties.  Hollywood made movies for export then of course but part of what it exported was an idea of America as a democratic ideal an idea of greatness which however blinkered and false and occasionally freighted with pessimism was persuasive simply because Gene Kelly and John Wayne were persuasive." a transformation that at first plays in an often broadly comic key. Mr. Eastwood’s loose at times very funny performance in the early part of the film is one of its great pleasures. While some of this enjoyment can be likened to spending time with an old friend Mr. Eastwood is also an adept director of his own performances and perhaps more important a canny manipulator of his own iconographic presence. He knows that when we’re looking at him we’re also seeing Dirty Harry and the Man With No Name and all his other outlaws and avenging angels who have roamed across the screen for the last half-century. All  these are embedded in his every furrow and gesture." Bee Vang (Thao Lor) Ahney Her (Sue Lor) and Christopher Carley (Father Janovich)." based on a story by Dave Johannson and Mr. Schenk; director of photography Tom Stern; edited by Joel Cox and Gary D. Roach; music by Kyle Eastwood and Michael Stevens; production designer James J. Murakami; produced by Clint Eastwood Robert Lorenz and Bill Gerber; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 56 minutes." in a way in “Gran Torino ” not as a character but as a ghostly presence. He hovers in the film in its themes and high-caliber imagery and of course most obviously in Mr. Eastwood’s face. It is a monumental face now so puckered and pleated that it no longer looks merely weathered as it has for decades but seems closer to petrified wood. Words like flinty and steely come to mind adjectives that Mr. Eastwood in his performance as Walt Kowalski expressively embodies with his usual lack of fuss and a number of growls. A former auto worker at Ford Walt has just put his longtime wife in the ground when the story opens. From his scowl it looks as if he would like to join her." a great many racist slurs and bloody violence." just as the holiday movie season has begun to sag under the weight of its own bloat full of noise and nonsense signifying nothing Clint Eastwood has slipped another film into theaters and shown everyone how it’s done. This year’s model is “Gran Torino ” a sleek muscle car of a movie Made in the U.S.A. in that industrial graveyard called Detroit. I’m not sure how he does it but I don’t want him to stop. Not because every film is great — though damn many are —  but because even the misfires show an urgent engagement with the tougher messier bigger questions of American life." Nick Schenk the story eases into gear with an act of desperation.Under violent threat from some Hmong gangbangers the next-door neighbor’s teenage son Thao (Bee Vang) tries and fails to steal Walt’s cherry 1972 Gran Torino and in the bargain nearly loses his life to its angry armed owner. Thao’s family led by his mouthy friendly sister Sue (a very good Ahney Her) forces the teenager to do penance by working for Walt an arrangement that pleases neither the man nor the boy. No one seems a more unlikely (or reluctant) father surrogate than Walt a foulmouthed bigot with an unprintable epithet for every imaginable racial and ethnic group. Growling — often literally “Grr grr” — he resists the family’s overtures like a man under siege walled in by years of suspicion prejudice and habit." 
6649
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12kill.html
drug use and some heartfelt lovemaking." Stacy (a strong Amanda Peet) sounds like a screenplay not life. Brian’s spiral into addiction however true doesn’t escape the crack-den clichés and the ending which literally spells out the true-life fates of the characters is awkwardly managed. You may notice these flaws but the desperation and grit and especially the actors keep you watching." ” a no-nonsense few-frills crime drama about two losers hustling their way into an early grave might have dropped into theaters rattled its audiences and quietly slipped out only to be rediscovered by later generations of insomniacs who spend their nights plugged in to Turner Classic Movies. This isn’t to say that the film which was directed by Brian Goodman is a classic in waiting though neither is it trying to be. Rather it tells a good story well and in the process quietly says a little something about what it means to look at the American dream from the bottom up." too old and it’s their jittery mounting apprehension about being dead-ended in nowhere lives that helps separate the film from the usual generic chaff. Mr. Goodman a character actor making a fine directing debut apparently based the film on his own early life and his performance as the pettiest of mob bosses is so unsympathetic as if the character had been bled dry of goodness that I can believe he has an inside track on this world. There’s a sense of intimacy with its lived-in houses and worn-out people that feels genuine a touch of the real that extends to the accents which for once in a South Boston film don’t sound like the achievement of a dialect  coach." but what keeps you tethered to this film is the low-key action the no-exit rooms the pitifully small stakes and the way Paulie slams a guy’s head against a bar with no ceremony no mercy no feeling. Along with his boyhood friend Brian (Mark Ruffalo) Paulie works for a small-time gangster Pat Kelly (Mr. Goodman) who runs the South Boston neighborhood where much of the story unfolds. Glorified errand boys Paulie and Brian break heads and worse for Pat who keeps them on a leash with meager wages and the threat of violence which might not be bad for lowlifes if these two didn’t appear to be pushing 40." doesn’t take ownership of them — it can be easy to take him for granted. We shouldn’t. Mr. Ruffalo is one of the greatest actors working in movies right now and each performance is a gift. As he often does he plays his character with such palpable sensitivity and empathy that you understand not just what Brian is going through at each moment but also the larger implications of these moments. Brian wants to do right by his wife and two young sons to be a good and decent man to keep his home and dignity. But he’s trapped in a world not of his making in a life not fully of his design. His face is an open wound; his heart too." it looks like penny-ante stuff from the crummy getaway car to the generic mini-mall parking lot with its few random passers-by one of whom turns out to be a cop with a gun. For reasons that become clear only later one of the thieves Paulie (Ethan Hawke) pulls off his mask and goes after the cop walking into the line of fire and popping bullets before a freeze frame stops him in his tracks. The whole setup feels like a story you’ve seen a hundred times a crucial difference being that there is something about this one that keeps you hooked." skin stretched tight across his gaunt cheeks Mr. Hawke holds you with a physically expressive performance that telegraphs each byroad of his character’s inner world. There is something haunted about Paulie that he makes true so much so that it sometimes feels as if you’re looking past the character and into Mr. Hawke himself." Ethan Hawke (Paulie) Amanda Peet (Stacy) Will Lyman (Sully) Brian Goodman (Pat Kelly) and Donnie Wahlberg (Detective Moran)." Donnie Wahlberg and Paul T. Murray; director of photography Chris Norr; edited by Robert Hoffman; music by Alex Wurman; production designer Henry Dunn; produced by Bob Yari Marc Frydman and Rod Lurie; released by Yari Film Group. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." 
6650
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12time.html
“Timecrimes” makes sci-fi lemonade out of low-budget lemons." one location and only four speaking roles requires nerve — and in this case an exorbitant faith in full-frontal nudity — but the Spanish writer and director Nacho Vigalondo has audacity to spare. Constructing a looping economical plot and directing like a fire marshal in a flaming building he conjures urgency and disorientation from the thinnest of air." Flavio Labiano; edited by Jose Luis Romeu; music by Chucky Namanera; art directors José Luis Arrizabalaga and Arturo Garcia; produced by Esteban Ibarretxe Eduardo Carneros and Javier Ibarretxe; released by Magnet Releasing. In Spanish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes." Candela Fernandez (Clara) Barbara Goenaga (the Girl) and Nacho Vigalondo (the Boy)." “Timecrimes” never abandons momentum: like the audience Hector has no time to think. His resolute acceptance of his bizarre situation is central to the movie’s success. Whatever happens no naked girl or crazy scientist is going to keep him from his dinner." paunchy Hector (Karra Elejalde) a well-fed husband whose idly scanning binoculars snag on an impromptu striptease in the woods near his new home. Compelled to investigate he discovers a dead beauty and a lurking attacker; fleeing to a nearby  laboratory he is hidden in a tank by a nervous scientist (played by Mr. Vigalondo) emerging to discover that an hour has passed — backward." 
6651
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12sylv.html
if sometimes irritating meditation on the act of looking. What women will make of this picture — the sine qua non of chic formalist exercises predicated on the “male gaze”  —  I can’t presume to guess. If nothing else Mr. Guerin has neatly captured the sweet erotic alienation of  being a single man at his leisure in a foreign town dazzled by the passing procession of local beauties." though most everything happens during the day. (Are we watching a series of dreams?) Mr. Guerin is deeply invested in structural ideas; the movie doesn’t develop a plot so much as a diagram that you could map out with a ruler and a really really sharp pencil." Natasha Braier; edited by Núria Esquerra; art director Maite Sánchez; produced by Eddie Saeta Château Rouge Luis Miñarro and Gaëlle Jones. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes. This film is not rated." a virtuoso feat of wordless prismatic storytelling that slices up space with the elegant precision of a Juan Gris still life. Mr. Guerin modulates his motif (a man watching women) through a series of shallow-space compositions alternating focus among couples single women or groups of friends as they’re perceived by the young man." both for the all-too-obvious debt to “Vertigo” (and the many highbrow stalker films it has inspired) and for the sense that Mr. Guerin has stopped making a movie and has started advancing a proposition that’s he’s obligated to complete." having drinks at a bar and gazing at yet more women. And that’s it." too is something of a glyph — and a faintly ridiculous figure. His long hair sharp features piercing eyes and chest-exposing shirts suggest a tubercular Romantic poet or half-mad painter. Indeed he bears a striking resemblance to some of Courbet’s wild self-portraits although there’s nothing remotely wild about this cool cerebral film." endlessly evocative premise. A handsome young man (Xavier Lafitte) returns to a large French city where he once encountered a beautiful woman named Sylvia. He sits in a cafe avid for a rendezvous and stares at the women around him sipping his beer listening to the ambient street symphony studying faces and occasionally sketching them in his notebook." 
6652
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12shoe.html
on Christmas Eve no less Frank receives word that a low-income apartment has become available. But before he can assume occupancy he must show proof of steady employment which he can’t because he has been working off the books as a day laborer. He is given until 6 p.m. to find a job." Justin (the talented and expressive David Castro) as they traipse around New York while Frank looks for work. Shivering and fighting hunger as the weather worsens Frank and Justin squabble and make up jump turnstiles are caught shoplifting and are finally reduced to panhandling. In one day Frank suffers as much misfortune and humiliation as Job himself." the character is still a filmmaker’s bogus bleeding-heart contrivance in a movie that is much less truthful than it pretends to be." Leonor Varela (Angela Diaz) David Castro (Justin Diaz) and Samantha Rose (Christina Diaz)." ” Salvatore Stabile’s queasy-making drama about a homeless New York family seeking shelter on a snowy Christmas Eve. The movie which stars John Leguizamo as Frank Diaz an illiterate washed-up boxer who is the breadwinner for a family of four including two stepchildren flaunts irreconcilable ambitions. One moment it pretends to be a sober neo-realist document; the next it’s a shameless tearjerker in the mode of “The Champ.”" but the Diazes who are neither illegal immigrants nor drug abusers and who apparently have no relatives or friends on whom to lean come across as much more helpless and victimized than they would actually be in such a situation. It never occurs to Frank and his  presentable wife Angela (Leonor Varela) that he might look after the children while she went to work." Vanja Cernjul; edited by Chris Monte; music by Jeff Beal; production designer Ernesto Solo; produced by Mr. Stabile Daniel Edelman Richard E. Hutton and Michael Caldwell; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." well groomed well spoken and in love. It is hard to swallow the notion that Frank can’t read or write. He is obviously not a first-generation immigrant. The  children aside from their clothes are picture-perfect movie moppets." 
6653
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12alph.html
“The Alphabet Killer” relies less on the novelty of its premise than on the positioning of solid actors in minor roles (including Melissa Leo and Martin Donovan as the tortured parents of a murdered child) and the intelligence of its star. Yet the out-of-left-field ending rich with sequel potential may be its scariest scene: there are after all an awful lot of letters in the alphabet." Ms. Dushku plays Megan Paige a workaholic detective who suffers a nervous breakdown when her hunt for a young girl’s killer is accompanied by visions of the decomposing deceased. Two years in an institution and one diagnosis of schizophrenia later Megan returns to work to learn that the killer has resurfaced using the same M.O.: choosing victims whose first and last names  begin with the same letter." Cary Elwes (Capt. Kenneth Shine) Timothy Hutton (Richard Ledge) Tom Malloy (Stephen Harper) Michael Ironside (Capt. Nathan Norcross) Martin Donovan (Jim Walsh) Melissa Leo (Kathy Walsh) and Bill Moseley (Carl Tanner)." it’s anchored by the considerable skills of Eliza Dushku and classed up by a director (Rob Schmidt) more interested in facts than in frights." Joe DeSalvo; edited by Frank Reynolds; music by Eric Perlmutter; production designer Alicia Keywan; produced by Mr. Malloy Aimee Schoof Isen Robbins and Russ Terlecki; released by Anchor Bay Entertainment. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." 
6654
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12whil.html
Steve Gainer; edited by William Anderson; music by Paul Haslinger; production designer Patrick Banister; produced by Don Murphy Kirk Shaw and Mary Aloe; released by Anchor Bay Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes." “While She Was Out” casts a stringy Kim Basinger as Della a suburban housewife facing Christmas Eve with an abusive husband (“I want you to keep the house clean!”) and no wrapping paper. No prizes for guessing which problem she finds more pressing." Ms. Basinger doing double duty here as an executive producer appears oblivious to the script’s idiocies. (“It ain’t natural how she keeps getting away all the time ” grumbles one thug.)" audiences familiar with the star’s continuing personal trials may feel inclined to connect the transference dots and suggest to Alec Baldwin that he hire a few more bodyguards." ” they bicker as they track their quarry to a deserted construction site where Della armed only with a weekly mechanics class and a little red toolbox prepares to fight for her life." Della heads for the mall — where carolers trill of “Satan’s power” — and onto the radar of four skinny sociopaths with rape on their minds and probably a truant officer on their tails." Lukas Haas (Chuckie) Craig Sheffer (Kenneth) Jamie Starr (Huey) Leonard Wu (Vingh) and Luis Chavez (Tomas)." 
6655
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12stil.html
science fiction movies about our impending extinction will instruct whoever comes next that we were a strange neurotic species indeed. We could not — cannot — get enough of fantasies of destruction meant at once to inflame and soothe our fear of vanishing altogether whether through war ecological catastrophe disease or alien invasion." ” directed by Scott Derrickson from a script by David Scarpa might also someday rise above its pulpy corny somber silliness rests mainly on the shoulders of Keanu Reeves. Those shoulders are perfect for filling out a dark narrow suit just as Mr. Reeves’s deadpan basso and permanently perplexed features make him an ideal Klaatu as the space visitor is called. Klaatu’s job is to assist calmly and methodically in the extermination of the human race a task he tries with evident fatigue to explain to his hysterical violent would-be victims." Helen pleads. We can change! To provide evidence of this transformative potential she takes Klaatu to see her mentor Professor Barnhardt (John Cleese) a scientist who listens to Bach and was awarded a Nobel Prize for “altruistic biology.” Apparently this is the Swedish Academy’s euphemism for pimping: the good doctor’s advice to Helen about how to approach Klaatu is to “persuade him not with your reason but with yourself.”" Jennifer Connelly (Dr. Helen Benson) Jaden Smith (Jacob Benson) John Cleese (Professor Barnhardt) Jon Hamm (Michael Granier) and Kathy Bates (Regina Jackson)." and a movie like “The Day the Earth Stood Still ” either in its 1951 version or in the “reimagining” that opens Friday invites us to feel fleetingly bad about that even as we are encouraged to laugh it off. The laughter — at the earnest reckoning occasioned by a weary-looking extraterrestrial and his giant robot; at the panic and distress their visit provokes — serves as a necessary balm. Like other overwhelming emotions the fear of apocalypse becomes more palatable when it is turned into camp." played with a bit too much ennui by Jennifer Connelly. Helen an expert in astrobiology is part of a team of scientists taken into government custody by force when a giant orb seems about to crash into the Earth. Instead it lands in Central Park disgorging that giant metal Cyclops robot (a near replica of the one from the earlier movie) and poor Klaatu." any movie that awards a former Monty Python cast member a Nobel Prize in anything cannot be all bad. And “The Day the Earth Stood Still” could be worse. Its scenario and many of its scenes feel ripped off rather than freshly imagined — why do aliens always seem to end up in New Jersey? — and the relationship between Helen and her stepson Jacob (Jaden Smith) does not quite add the necessary element of heart-tugging sentiment." much as he did back when we knew him as Neo." with Hillary Clinton’s demeanor and Sarah Palin’s hair) responds with military force which only speeds the process of humanity’s annihilation and demonstrates that our executioners may have a point. We’re such a brutal dumb incorrigible life form that the only way the planet can survive is if we’re no longer on it. (In 1951 the case against us was mainly pacifist. Now the anti-militarism has a more urgent and explicit ecological dimension.) A metastasizing swarm of metal bugs — the best special effects in a movie that often looks cheap and bedraggled — is dispatched to eat us and everything we’ve made or at least everything on the New Jersey Turnpike." based on the screenplay by Edmund H. North; director of photography David Tattersall; edited by Wayne Wahrman; music by Tyler Bates; production designer David Brisbin; visual effects supervisor Jeffrey A. Okun; produced by Erwin Stoff Gregory Goodman and Paul Harris Boardman; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." ” made early in the atomic age has long inspired this kind of laughter. It has also in part because of its expressive shadowy black-and-white cinematography retained a measure of haunting unsettling weirdness." 
6656
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12holi.html
of course is ruined. The taciturn Eddy who urges a reluctant Jesse the younger of his two sons to go into the family business has his own secret torment. (Hint: It’s medical.)" which has as many underdeveloped subplots as characters threatens to be another melodrama about a returning soldier.  The glum Jesse (Freddy  Rodriguez) home from Iraq is picked up at the airport by his neighborhood pals; sunglasses cover deep scratches around one eye that suggest he has had a set-to with a riled-up house cat." Freddy Rodriguez (Jesse) Debra Messing (Sarah) Alfred Molina (Eddy) Elizabeth Peña (Anna) Vanessa Ferlito (Roxanna) Jay Hernandez (Ozzy) Luis Guzmán (Johnny) and Melonie Diaz (Marissa)." a working-class Latino neighborhood of Chicago will not be processed into kindling. As the Rodriguez menfolk gathered for Christmas attack it with chain saws their incompetence with power tools makes them look like fools. Even when they try to drag it out of the earth with ropes and chains attached to a car it refuses to budge." the residents of Humboldt Park really know how to enjoy themselves." ” directed by Alfredo de Villa (“Washington Heights”) from a screenplay by Alison Swan and Rick Najera has neither the time nor the inclination to explore Jesse’s malaise in any depth. Although he harbors guilt about the death of a friend in combat what really bugs him is that Marissa (Melonie Diaz) the girlfriend he dumped has happily settled down with another man." Anna (Elizabeth Peña who is at least a decade too young for her role) announces she is divorcing Eddy (Alfred Molina) her husband of 36 years who owns a bodega; he allegedly cheated. The notion that a family-loving matriarch would make such a surprise announcement (even Eddy is ambushed) at a festive holiday reunion is simply bizarre." as written is a disagreeable piece of work.  She badgers her non-Hispanic daughter-in-law Sarah (Debra Messing) a yuppie banker to give her a grandchild and mutters nasty things about her in Spanish which Sarah can’t understand. The movie appears to take Anna’s side. Sarah is married to Anna’s oldest son Mauricio (an unconvincing John Leguizamo in expensive eyewear) a successful lawyer." ” an efficient home-for-Christmas ensemble comedy trimmed with plastic teardrops. But the tree might also stand for a wooden holiday genre in which uplift follows tumult as surely as Christmas morning follows Christmas Eve. The only distinguishing characteristic of this mildly agreeable variation of a worn-out formula is that the boisterous family under examination is Puerto Rican and the screenplay includes a smattering of Spanish." Scott Kevan; edited by Amy E. Duddleston and John Coniglio; music by Paul Oakenfold; production designer Dan Clancy; produced by Robert Teitel and George Tillman Jr.; released by Overture Films. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." Roxanna (Vanessa Ferlito) a struggling television actress living in Hollywood who is waiting for a call from her agent about a part. Will Roxanna hook up with her hunky but shady childhood friend Ozzy (Jay Hernandez) who carries a gun along with a potentially lethal grudge against a neighbor? Ms. Ferlito and Mr. Hernandez lend the movie a smidgen of heat." 
6657
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12doub.html
“Doubt” essentially boils down to a shell game: you think you see the pea under this or that shell but the prize (answer) remains tauntingly out of reach. So does Father Flynn a character who for a long stretch appears above reproach: a good caring forward-thinking man whose only crime seems to be tolerance. When he suggests that the school add a secular song to its Christmas lineup as a way of reaching out to the community Sister Aloysius reacts as if he had suggested  human sacrifice instead. That he seems to embody the spirit of reform handed down by Second Vatican Council which ended in 1965 makes him all the more sympathetic." Roger Deakins; edited by Dylan Tichenor; music by Howard Shore; production designer David Gropman; produced by Scott Rudin and Mark Roybal; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." “Doubt” isn’t about certainty but ambiguity that no man’s land between right and wrong black and white. This gray zone paradoxically can be  easier to grapple with on the stage where ideas sometimes range more freely because they are not tethered to representations of the real world. Mainstream moviemaking with its commercial directives and slavish attachment to narrative codes by contrast isn’t particularly hospitable to ambiguity. It insists on clear parameters tidy endings easy answers and a world divided into heroes and villains which may help explain why Mr. Shanley’s film feels caught between two mediums and why Ms. Streep appears to be in a Gothic horror thriller while everyone else looks and sounds closer to life or at least dramatic realism." which pivots on accusations of child molestation was first staged  in 2004 —  two years after the Roman Catholic Church  sex-abuse scandals erupted in America —  it unfolds at a  historical remove in 1964. Sister Aloysius (Ms. Streep) the principal of a Catholic school in the Bronx comes to suspect that her supervisor Father Flynn (a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman) has developed an erotic interest or worse in one of their charges Donald (Joseph Foster II) the school’s first and only black student. Shored up by the tentative suspicions of a younger nun Sister James (an unsteady Amy Adams) Sister Aloysius begins circling Father Flynn going in for the kill. Sister James has doubts. Sister Aloysius has well none." Mr. Shanley chips away at this sympathy pulling the story and your feelings this way and that. One of the most eccentric moments in the film occurs when Father Flynn after admonishing some male students about their dirty fingernails shows off his long carefully manicured nails. Mr. Shanley complicates this feeling of gender ambiguity   later when Father Flynn having gone to Sister Aloysius’s office for a meeting sits behind her desk without asking permission an assertion of power that opens a fissure in his easygoing facade and says more about the church and gender than any of their increasingly heated exchanges. Mostly though the characters talk and Mr. Shanley throws a frame around  their heads." ” but nowhere as thick juicy sustained or sustaining as Meryl Streep’s performance as a distrustful nun in John Patrick Shanley’s screen adaptation of his stage play. Wearing flowing black robes a  bonnet  that squats on her head like an upside-down Easter basket and the kind of  spectacles Mr. Pickwick probably wore to read his papers Ms. Streep blows in like a storm shaking up the story’s reverential solemnity with gusts of energy and comedy. The performance may make no sense in the context of the rest of the film but it is — forgive me Father — gratifying nunsense." Philip Seymour Hoffman (Father Brendan Flynn) Amy Adams (Sister James) Viola Davis (Mrs. Miller) Joseph Foster II (Donald Miller) Alice Drummond (Sister Veronica) Audrie Neenan (Sister Raymond) Susan Blommaert (Mrs. Carson) Carrie Preston (Christine Hurley) and John Costelloe (Warren Hurley)." and he’s still largely using words and more words despite the tilted camera angles and pretty pictures. But the words are good solid at times touching. His work with the actors is generally fine though it’s a mystery what he thought Ms. Streep with her wild eyes and an accent as wide as the  Grand Concourse was doing. Her outsize performance has a whiff of burlesque but she’s really just operating in a different register from the other actors who are working in the more naturalistic vein of modern movie realism. She’s a hoot but she’s also a relief because for some of us worshiping Our Lady of Accents is easier on the soul than doing time in church." indirection allusion as well as a cunning deployment of the barely said and the flat-out unspeakable. (The word “pedophilia” is never uttered.) When Sister James tells Sister Aloysius that Father Flynn has “taken an interest” in Donald the words reverberate like a struck bell. Later when Donald’s mother (Viola Davis shaking the film up with a few extravagantly mucousy minutes) explains to Sister Aloysius why she wants to keep her son at school no matter what the truth about the priest her words resonate partly because they remain veiled by shame propriety fear inequality pain. What are you telling me? Sister Aloysius demands of the stunned mother though it’s clear they both know the answer." 
6658
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12delg.html
Scott Biear Patrick Cowan Carl F. Dream Jennifer Jones and Mr. Maurer; director of photography Herb Kossover; music by Geoff Zanelli; animation director Warren Grubb; technical director John Lytle; art director Mark A. W. Jackson; produced by Mr. Adler; released by Fathom Studios/Freestyle Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes." the earthbound Lockni natives have come to distrust the winged Nohrin immigrants (a shared fondness for the silent “h” notwithstanding). So when a Lockni lad named Delgo (voiced by Freddie Prinze Jr.) develops a crush on the Nohrin princess Kyla (Jennifer Love Hewitt) her resemblance to Paula Abdul and his to a mottled potato are the least of their problems." “Delgo” has a lumbering prehistoric vibe fueled by dinosaur-derived creatures and images of intimidating density. Louis Gossett Jr.’s dignified baritone emanating from the Nohrin king — whose bone structure recalls the alien played by Mr. Gossett in “Enemy Mine” — is no match for Chris Kattan’s grating contribution as Delgo’s shrieking sidekick Filo. If only the evil empress Sedessa had crushed him beneath her heel instead of that innocent Lockni baby." an endless war and unnecessarily tight unitards." Peter Jackson George Lucas and Shakespeare this barely animated fantasy suffers from more than just a lack of originality. Dreary battles and apathetic voice work — only Eric Idle as a malaprop-prone servant earns his fee — conspire in a sedition-oriented plot that not even six writers (including the directors Marc F. Adler and Jason F. Maurer) are able to invigorate." Jennifer Love Hewitt (Princess Kyla) Michael Clarke Duncan (Elder Marley) Kelly Ripa (Kurrin) Malcolm McDowell (Raius) Eric Idle (Spig) Louis Gossett Jr. (King Zahn) Anne Bancroft (Sedessa) Chris Kattan (Filo) Val Kilmer (Bogardus) Burt Reynolds (Delgo’s Father) and Sally Kellerman (Narrator)." 
6659
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12dark.html
Bijou Phillips (Crystal Labelle) Izabella Miko (Madelaine Bonderont) Elias Koteas (Lieutenant) and Toledo (Prince Royale)." but not much going on between them. Based on a stage musical by Glenn M. Stewart and brought to the screen by the director Rachel Samuels this lush film noir musical spares no imaginative expense on the décor of sultry nightclubs the density of fake fog on brooding streets the lighting of Art Deco lobbies and the parade of sleek glittering sexed-up costumes that variously suggest the 1930s haute couture sadomasochism and “Cabaret Beyond the Thunderdome.”" “Dark Streets” strikes postures in place of drama. The plot such as it is seems like a pretext for the nonstop musical numbers; you can feel the energy slacken every time the spectacle pauses to register ineffectually a human presence or a story worth telling." and there’s plenty to listen to as well: the score includes performances by Etta James Aaron Neville and Chaka Khan. This music mostly the blues is pantomimed by the denizens of the Tower nightclub who find themselves ensnared in a lackluster mystery involving the playboy owner Chaz Davenport (Gabriel Mann) a shady police lieutenant (Elias Koteas) and a pair of femmes fatales (Bijou Phillips and Izabella Miko)." drug use and brief violent images." based on a play by Glenn M. Stewart; director of photography Sharone Meir; edited by Miklos Wright Michael J. Duthie and Anne Goursaud; score by George Acogny featuring B. B. King with original songs by James Compton Tim Brown and Tony de Meur; choreography by Keith Young; production designer Frank Bollinger; produced by Mr. Stewart Claus Clausen Andrea Balen and Corina Danckwerts; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes." Mo.; Atlanta; Memphis; New Orleans; Dallas Portland Ore.; and Seattle." 
6660
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12che.html
” in other words is epic hagiography. Its second half recreating Guevara’s failed attempt to reproduce the Cuban revolution in Bolivia might be called “The Passion of the Che ” in honor of the fanatical fidelity with which it walks its sanctified hero through the stations of his martyrdom. (Guevara was executed in 1967 by the Bolivian military after his insurgency had been crushed.) But the film is also in a very precise and unusual sense an action movie. I don’t just mean that it is heavy on battles and gunfights but rather that action — what people do as opposed to why they do it — is its primary indeed obsessive concern." ” shot on locations in Latin America with a small crew and a new kind of lightweight digital camera both studies and mirrors Guevara’s two wars. With diagrammatic rigor it lays out how one revolution succeeds — by cultivating popular support by marshaling a disciplined and growing contingent of troops — and how another fails. It communicates a sense of difficulty and frustration and also the kind of elation that comes from being absorbed in a heroic communal task." spanning more than a decade and reconstructing a pair of brutal insurgencies “Che” surely deserves the overworked frequently misapplied name of epic. Steven Soderbergh’s new film a two-part portrait of the Argentine doctor-turned-international revolutionary Ernesto Guevara (it opens in limited release as one film on Friday and as two films early next year) plants itself squarely in an old tradition of martial poetry: it sings of arms and the man." ” a description that in a way means the opposite of what it seems to. Che represented to Sartre and others and perhaps to himself a new kind of person a creature of pure revolutionary integrity free of the usual trappings of bourgeois subjectivity. Those trappings of course are part of what make characters in movies interesting. In honoring the myth of Che as a kind of macho Marxist superman in whom thought and feeling action and theory passion and discipline are united Mr. Soderbergh and Mr. Del Toro (a producer of the picture as well as its star) remove him from the realm of ordinary human sympathy." Part 2 written by Mr. Buchman and Benjamin A. van der Veen; director of photography Peter Andrews; production designer Antxón Gómez; produced by Benicio Del Toro and Laura Bickford; released by IFC Films. At the Ziegfeld Theater 141 West 54th Street Manhattan. In Spanish and English with English subtitles. Shown in two parts: “Che Part One ” 2 hours 9 minutes and “Che Part Two ” 2 hours 8 minutes with an intermission." at least temporarily to overlook its naïve and fuzzy politics. But the film’s formal sophistication is ultimately an evasion of the moral reckoning that Ernesto Guevara more than 40 years and several million T-shirts after his death surely deserves. Mr. Soderbergh once again offers a master class in filmmaking. As history though “Che” is finally not epic but romance. It takes great care to be true to the factual record but it is nonetheless a fairy tale." Peter Buchman restrict themselves to a narrow register of themes and effects. This is a very long song composed in about three notes. Its motifs are facial hair tobacco smoke and earnest militant bombast. (The excellent score less austere in its moods and effects is by Alberto Iglesias.)" fascinated by logistics and the intricacies of how stuff gets done. He indulged this tendency in the “Ocean’s 11” franchise and while “Che” is hardly the same type of commercial entertainment its military operations are like the capers in the “Ocean’s” pictures at once formal challenges and allegorical stand-ins for the act of filmmaking itself." for starters and nearly everything that followed by implication — in purely tactical terms. The precision with which Mr. Soderbergh charts the progress of Castro’s army across the Cuban countryside — and the even greater meticulousness in his depiction of the unraveling Bolivian campaign — has something in common with the exertions of Civil War re-enactors or online gamers." wittily impersonated by Demián Bichir and with Camillo Cienfuegos played with great verve by Santiago Cabrera) and relations with women (Catalina Sandino Moreno and Franka Potente). He faces hard choices as a strategist and a field commander and is subject to crippling asthma attacks. But his inner life is off limits except insofar as his thoughts and emotions might illuminate the exemplary character of his deeds." as far as the movie is concerned just about everyone else. Journalists interview him in purring fawning tones. An unctuous fan in round spectacles asks for an autograph. Cocktail party guests in an elegant Manhattan apartment crowd around him. But Che media star and darling of the international left-leaning intelligentsia regards the fuss with detachment preferring to sit and smoke with the common folk in kitchens and back rooms." detailing the grinding campaign of Fidel Castro’s guerrilla army against the government of Fulgencio Batista which culminated in Batista’s ouster in 1959 is intercut with scenes of a visit to New York that Guevara made in 1964 to address the United Nations General Assembly. Those bits shot in a gorgeously grainy mock-antique black-and-white offer a bit of visual relief from the long slog through the Cuban countryside as well as providing an occasion for defiant revolutionary apologetics." Demián Bichir (Fidel Castro) Santiago Cabrera (Camillo Cienfuegos) Elvira Mínguez (Celia Sanchez) Jorge Perugorría (Joaquin) Edgar Ramirez (Ciro Redondo) Victor Rasuk (Rogelio Acevedo) Carlos Bardem (Moises Guevara) Joaquim de Almeida (Barrientos) Eduard Fernández (Ciro Algaranaz) Marc-André Grondin (Régis Debray) Catalina Sandino Moreno (Aleida Guevara) and Franka Potente (Tania)." ” in effect represents the position of a person at that cocktail party who feels superior to the others because unlike those liberal phonies he really understands in the depths of his soul the Cuban revolution and the agonies of the third world. More dogmatic than thou (and certainly than Walter Salles’s 2004 “Motorcycle Diaries ” a vivid and sympathetic picture of the young Ernesto Guevara) “Che” not only participates in the worship of its subject but also spares no effort to insulate him from skepticism. Benicio Del Toro’s performance is technically flawless: you can be sure when he crooks his arm to look at his watch or squints at a comrade through a plume of pipe smoke or peels an orange that you are seeing the thing done exactly as Che would have done it. He also infuses the character with the full and considerable measure of his own charisma." 
6661
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/12/movies/12adam.html
which distract Klein from the gruesome business at hand. Spending days on all fours begging rolling over and seizing hunks of meat with his teeth from the mouth of the commandant’s German shepherd  — with which he forms an animal bond —  Adam is a “good dog.” When not a pet Adam is forced to play the violin and serenade his fellow prisoners including his wife and daughter as they are marched to the gas chambers. The scene in which they pass him on the way to the crematorium is one of the  potentially wrenching moments that the film throws away." a dog whisperer a wily seducer a raging drunk and a traumatized observer of genocide. Mr. Goldblum’s tour-de-force performance alas is not enough to transmit a steady emotional current through the movie directed by Paul Schrader from Noah Stollman’s adaptation of a 1968 novel by an Israeli Yoram Kaniuk." from the 1930s and ’40s (in black-and-white sequences) to the 1950s and early  ’60s (color) when Adam is the star patient at a psychiatric treatment center for Holocaust survivors in the Negev desert. In these madhouse scenes Adam much like McMurphy in “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest ” has the run of the place. He swills booze out of the bottle and carries on an affair with the head nurse (Ayelet Zurer) who is so besotted with him that she eagerly grovels on all fours and barks for attention." Adam survives the Holocaust by exploiting his skills as an entertainer. As the film goes on to explore his extreme case of survivor’s guilt after the war it poses familiar questions about who is sane  in an insane world and assumes that simply reiterating those questions will suffice. The film is so flat that it leaves you wondering if Mr. Kaniuk’s book is ultimately untranslatable to the screen." Willem Dafoe (Commandant Klein) Derek Jacobi (Dr. Nathan Gross) Tudor Rapiteanu (David) and Ayelet Zurer (Gina Grey)." which won extravagant critical acclaim and earned comparisons to “Catch-22” and the magical realism of Gabriel  García Márquez takes the concept of being treated like a dog to its absurdist limits. After Adam is scooped up by the Nazis he is forced to accept a Faustian arrangement: he lives in comfort at a concentration camp as the pet dog of Commandant Klein (Willem Dafoe) a Nazi officer who remembers  Adam’s nightclub animal act." based on the novel by Yoram Kaniuk; director of photography Sebastian Edschmid; edited by Sandy Saffeels; music by Gabriel Yared; production designer Alexander Manasse; produced by Ehud Bleiberg and Werner Wirsing; released by Bleiberg Entertainment. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." nor even a wicked smirk of nihilistic glee to be gleaned." a wild child sequestered in the hospital. Chained to his bed clutching a sheet with eyeholes through which he peers like a Halloween ghost David believes he is a dog. As Adam and David develop a bond the boy takes his first lurching steps on two feet and begins to make human sounds. He becomes the vehicle for Adam’s “resurrection” to sanity." since the fable’s sardonic final twist is its suggestion that sanity whatever that may be robs existence of its divine fire." Jeff Goldblum has always suggested an actor poised to reveal a thousand faces many of them nightmarish apparitions. In “The Fly” we saw a few of them; more emerge in the Holocaust survivor drama “Adam Resurrected.” The movie’s unsettling opening image is a close-up of his character Adam Stein in clown makeup rolling his left eye while keeping the right stationary." 
6662
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/10/movies/10wend.html
” another movie about a young person’s trek toward Alaska  —  are grounded in an unyielding material reality subject to the remorseless logic of the cash nexus. The most expressive most heartbreaking moment in “Wendy and Lucy” involves a small sum of money changing hands a gesture that encapsulates both Ms. Reichardt’s humanism and her unsentimental sense of economic reality. Whatever big dreams may be driving Wendy her mind is necessarily focused on dollars and cents." quietly establishing herself as an indispensable American filmmaker explores some paradigmatic and contradictory native themes: the nature of solidarity in a culture of individualism; the tension between the lure of the open road and the longing for home; the competing demands of freedom and obligation." which was shot  in August 2007   and made its way through various international festivals before arriving in Manhattan on Wednesday seems uncannily well suited in mood and manner to this grim recessionary season. We may be seeing more like it which I suppose would be a silver lining of sorts." for the most part the sighing of the wind in the trees the rumbling of freight trains and trucks and sometimes the absent-minded humming of Michelle Williams who plays Wendy a young woman drifting through Oregon and Washington on her way to Alaska." Will Patton (Mechanic) John Robinson (Andy) Will Oldham (Icky) Walter Dalton (Security Guard) and Larry Fessenden (Man in Park)." a little drug use and a brief implication of violence but no nudity sex or murder. The rating seems to reflect above all an impulse to protect children from learning that people are lonely and that life can be hard." resting on it the way a smooth stone rests in your palm  — is a lucid and melancholy inquiry into the current state of American society. Much as “Old Joy” turned a simple encounter between two longtime friends into a meditation on manhood and responsibility at a time of war and political confusion so does “Wendy and Lucy” find in one woman’s partly self-created hard luck an intimation of more widespread hard times ahead." based on the short story “Train Choir” by Mr. Raymond; director of photography Sam Levy; edited by Ms. Reichardt and Mike Burchett; music by Will Oldham; produced by Neil Kopp Anish Savjani and Larry Fessenden; released by Oscilloscope Laboratories. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes." that is for Lucy the yellow-brown mutt who is her companion her responsibility and one of the few fixtures in Wendy’s mobile minimal world. She has in addition to her dog an old Honda Accord a money belt and a notebook in which she carefully records mileage and expenses. Her plan is to find work in a fish cannery maybe in Ketchikan." the sister is curt and suspicious expecting a request for money or assistance. Some of the strangers Wendy meets are a little more generous and encouraging but always within the constraints of their own circumstances. A parking lot security guard (Walter Dalton) becomes the closest thing she has to a friend but only after he has shooed her off the premises. A mechanic (Will Patton) knocks a few dollars off his towing fee and gives her the benefit of his automotive expertise which may hurt more than it helps. With one exception  —  a young supermarket worker (John Robinson) who insists on strict enforcement of the store’s zero-tolerance policy toward shoplifters  —  people give Wendy a break when they can." whose clean-lined prose has something in common with Ms. Reichardt’s  reserved  and attentive shooting style. At first glance “Wendy and Lucy” looks so modest and prosaic that it seems like little more than an extended anecdote. A young woman pauses on her journey in a nondescript weary town and encounters a run of bad luck some of it brought about by her own bad decisions. Her car breaks down. She is arrested for shoplifting. Her dog goes missing." always a thoughtful risk-taking actress (see everything from “Brokeback Mountain” to “I’m Not There” to “Synecdoche New York”) here expunges all traces of movie star glamour dressing in brown knee-length cut-off shorts and a shapeless blue sweatshirt and framing her delicate slightly elfin face with  drab dark hair. Wendy’s manner is wary and diffident and she calculates the dangers and possibilities of every encounter as if she were counting out pennies and dimes. She confronts a casually indifferent intermittently compassionate world with an attitude that seems at once independent and helpless. Contemplating the final leg of her journey which began in Indiana Wendy is resilient and determined. Also lost terrified and alone." from whose story “Train Choir” “Wendy and Lucy” is adapted) refrain from making too overt a play for our sympathy. Like the locals Wendy encounters we don’t know enough about her to form a clear judgment and we may subject her to our own doubts and prejudices." “Wendy and Lucy ” is 80 minutes long  —  it would fit inside Baz Luhrmann’s “Australia” twice with room to spare — and does not contain a superfluous word or shot. Like “Old Joy” (2006) Ms. Reichardt’s modest and critically beloved second feature “Wendy and Lucy” takes place mainly outdoors and registers the natural beauty of the Pacific Northwest with unostentatious affection." simple perfect story of a young woman  and her dog is that this does not seem by the end to be an idle or trivial question. What happens to Wendy  —  and to Lucy  —  matters a lot which is to say that “Wendy and Lucy ” for all its modesty matters a lot too." nonexpository style encourages this allowing the more conventional-minded among us to wonder if driving to Alaska is really the best idea or to question the wisdom of other aspects of Wendy’s plan. Disapproving of Wendy’s choices  is one route to caring about her which in turn leads to some difficult uncomfortable questions. What would any of us do in her situation? What would we do if we met someone like her? How can we be sure we haven’t?" ” she says. It’s a plain and practical statement that is also terribly sad  in its implications. Apart from Lucy there may not be anyone else who needs or wants Wendy." 
6663
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/10/movies/10read.html
the story opens in 1995 Germany with Mr. Fiennes as a lawyer Michael Berg bidding an uncomfortable goodbye to an apparent one-night stand. (He makes the woman breakfast but stands at an awkward remove when she leaves.) From the cool sleek surfaces of his carefully appointed apartment and the downward curve of his mouth it appears that Michael either lives an ordered if unhappy life or that Mr. Daldry has no fear when it comes to embracing stereotypes about chilly Germans. Both turn out to be true as the nominal reasons for Michael’s pained smile are excavated through fluid flashbacks and somber revelations." with Michael staring out a window at a passing train an image that transports him to 1958 where his 15-year-old self (David Kross) sits hunched inside a streetcar in obvious pain. The young Michael rushes into the rainy streets and retches inside a building vestibule. A woman (Ms. Winslet) materializes as if from nowhere briskly cleans the mess and tells him to follow her. He does and not long after inside a flat lined with hanging nylons and clutter she orders the boy out of his clothes and into the tub before opening a towel and her legs to him. A discreet affair ensues characterized by shots of decorously writhing flesh tears smiles shouts and literature: Michael reads aloud to Hanna." based on the book by Bernhard Schlink translated by Carol Brown Janeway; directors of photography Chris Menges and Roger Deakins; edited by Claire Simpson; music by Nico Muhly; production designer Brigitte Broch; produced by Anthony Minghella Sydney Pollack Donna Gigliotti and Redmond Morris; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 2 hours 3 minutes." for starters — you have to wonder who exactly wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and asks us to pity a death-camp guard. You could argue that the film isn’t really about the Holocaust but about the generation that grew up in its shadow which is what the book insists. But the film is neither about the Holocaust nor about those Germans who grappled with its legacy: it’s about making the audience feel good about a historical catastrophe that grows fainter with each new tasteful interpolation." Mr. Hare’s apparent attempt to deepen or underline the novel’s ideas about the past informing the present by kinking up its linear chronology with flashbacks proves crippling: scrambling the time frame so that the story repeatedly points to the past only exposes the deep vein of self-pity that runs through the novel flattening Mr. Schlink’s already unpersuasive bid at generational soul-seeking. The problems are evident in the film’s first flashback to Michael on that streetcar. The location would be meaningless (the scene isn’t in the novel) but this is Germany 13 years after the end of World War II and an unhappy boy in a rail car isn’t just an unhappy boy: he is an allusion to the millions transported to the death camps." of course in a Hollywood movie designed for adult audiences (and for the awards season) featuring attractive lighting seductive stars and glossy production values. And certainly there are things to recommend here notably the affecting Mr. Kross and the rumpled professionally weary Mr. Ganz. Ms. Winslet looks lovely even when wearing a smear of wrinkles and a little gray during the later scenes but she’s playing an impossible character. Her stern mien clipped enunciation (most of the cast speaks in German-accented English) and abrupt metronymic gestures are an uneasy fit for this naturally appealing and open actress and occasionally tilt into near-comedy as in the scene in which Hanna furiously scrubs Michael in her bathtub with a brush and momentarily turns into a very naughty nurse." Los Angeles and San Francisco." and the story skips to the 1960s with Michael wearing sideburns and attending law school. One day a professor (Bruno Ganz) takes him and a few other students to a court where some women are being tried for Nazi war crimes which is how Hanna re-enters Michael’s life. During the proceedings he comes to realize her secret her shame which has nothing to do with her being a Nazi prison guard: she’s illiterate. She goes to prison years pass and Mr. Fiennes takes over for Mr. Kross. Eventually a Holocaust survivor (Lena Olin) living in a swank Manhattan apartment delivers a stern lecture to Michael about exploiting the Holocaust an admonition that arrives too late for this fatuous film." more obliquely about the Holocaust and the generation of Germans who came of age after that catastrophe. This at any rate is what the film would have us believe it’s about though mostly it involves Kate Winslet her taut belly and limbs gleaming under the caressing light deflowering a very surprised-looking teenage boy who grows up to become a depressed-looking Ralph Fiennes." in a way the fate of my generation a German fate.” In the novel and the film — which monumentalizes every trembling lip and fluttering eyelash turning human gestures into Kodak moments — Michael’s pain turns him not just into Hanna’s victim but also a kind of survivor. Outrageously Hanna is a victim too because she took the guard job only to hide her illiteracy as if illiteracy were an excuse for barbarism. Not that the film dwells on barbarism: beauty is its currency from the cinematography (by Chris Menges and Roger Deakins) that makes Ms. Winslet’s pale skin creamy to the immaculate production design (Brigitte Broch). Even Michael’s visit to an extermination camp is beautifully lighted." Ralph Fiennes (Michael Berg) David Kross (Young Michael Berg) Lena Olin (Rose Mather/Ilana Mather) and Bruno Ganz (Professor Rohl)." 
6664
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/05/movies/05fros.html
the interviews were seen as an enormous risk both for Mr. Frost who was gambling with his money and future and for the presidentially pardoned Nixon who was seeking absolution but risked further public humiliation. (Whatever the outcome he was guaranteed a sweet jackpot: some $600 000 and 10 percent of the profits.)" based on his stage play; director of photography Salvatore Totino; edited by Mike Hill and Dan Hanley; music by Hans Zimmer; production designer Michael Corenblith; produced by Brian Grazer Mr. Howard Tim Bevan and Eric Fellner; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 2 minutes." who helped Mr. Frost prepare for the interviews (and is played by a rabbity Sam Rockwell in the movie) and whose book “The Conviction of Richard Nixon” was the so-called grist for Mr. Morgan’s play the former president was akin to Proteus the wily shape-shifting Old Man of the Sea from “The Odyssey.” It’s an evocative image though the thing about Proteus is that when caught he does tell the truth." chomp chomp. Artfully lighted and shot to accentuate the character’s trembling affronted jowls his shoulders hunched face bunched he creeps along like a spider alternately retreating into the shadows and pouncing with a smile. That smile should give you nightmares but Mr. Howard a competent craftsman who tends to dim the lights in his movies even while brightening their themes (“A Beautiful Mind”) has neither the skill nor the will to draw out a dangerous performance from Mr. Langella something to make your skin crawl or heart leap. Unlike Oliver Stone who invested Nixon (a memorable Anthony Hopkins) with Shakespearean heft but refused to sentimentalize him this is a portrait designed to elicit a sniffy tear or two along with a few statuettes." memories of his flop-sweat encounter with John F. Kennedy had been long supplanted by images of Nixon in China and on your family television set. As one Nixon adviser said in 1967 “The response is to the image not to the man.” In 1977 Nixon dusted off that image. The cleanup job continues." Michael Sheen (David Frost) Kevin Bacon (Jack Brennan) Rebecca Hall (Caroline Cushing) Toby Jones (Swifty Lazar) Matthew MacFadyen (John Birt) Oliver Platt (Bob Zelnick) and Sam Rockwell (James Reston Jr.)." the worst didn’t happen to either Frost or Nixon the worst being relative to your political view. The fallen leader fell no further despite the choking close-ups beads of sweat agonized stammers weird digressions and outrageous pronouncements: “When the president does it that means that it is not illegal.” The reviews were decidedly mixed — from prison his former aide John D. Ehrlichman gave Nixon’s performance the big thumbs down calling it “a smarmy maudlin rationalization.” But the audience share was huge blockbuster-size:  the first program on Watergate which played against a John Wayne flick and reruns of “Good Times” and “The Bionic Woman ” attracted as many viewers as the year’s reigning ratings champ “Happy Days ” the Eisenhower-era sitcom in which Mr. Howard played the Everyboy Richie Cunningham." the film revisits the televised May 1977 face-off between the toothy British personality David Frost and the disgraced former president Richard M. Nixon three years after he left office trimming their nearly 30-hour armchair-to-armchair spar into a tidy 122-minute narrative of loss and redemption that at least from this ringside seat would be better titled “Nixon/Frost.”" ” a fictionalized account of the relationship between Queen Elizabeth and Tony Blair  in the aftermath of Diana’s death “Frost/Nixon” turns on a power struggle between stubborn if sympathetic adversaries. Once again Mr. Sheen who played Mr. Blair in both “The Queen” and “The Deal ” a made-for-British-television movie written by Mr. Morgan assumes the role of the professional sycophant who proves tougher than his breezy smiles suggest. And once again much as he was by Helen Mirren in “The Queen ” the likable watchable Mr. Sheen has been pitted against a scene-stealer who if not carefully tethered will devour the screen by the greedy mouthful." but not necessarily audience-pleasing entertainments which may explain why “Frost/Nixon” registers as such a soothing agreeably amusing experience more palliative than purgative. Anchored by its first-rate leads who originated the roles on the London stage — Frank Langella as Nixon and Michael Sheen as Frost — the movie is a talkathon embellished with camera movements. It opens with one of those compressed historical montages a kind of tossed salad of names places and dates (Walter Cronkite Watergate August 1974) before moving on to the main course: Frost trying to persuade — and with comforting words and an open checkbook eventually persuading — Nixon to sit down to a series of on-camera interviews in a suburban Southern California house." 
6665
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/05/movies/05cadi.html
for that matter to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. whom he played in the HBO film “Boycott ” or to the painter Jean-Michel Basquiat so brilliantly impersonated in “Basquiat.”" whether playing a former soldier or a tormented artist Mr. Wright directs our attention away from the familiar public face of the character in question toward a private zone where ambition struggles with anxiety and where what seems to be at stake is nothing less than the integrity and viability of the self. And so in his Muddy Waters we see pride ambition and uncertainty cohabiting with musical genius sexual appetite and stubborn professionalism." ” which sustains a remarkable number of dramatically important relationships any one of which could have been a movie in its own right. Muddy Waters is also a mentor to Little Walter — a troubled reckless brilliant harmonica player — and a steadfast (if unfaithful) husband to Geneva (Gabrielle Union). Chess meanwhile though he is married (his wife Revetta is played by Emmanuelle Chriqui) is nearly undone by his passion for Etta James." Anastas Michos; edited by Peter C. Frank; music by Terence Blanchard; production designer Linda Burton; produced by Andrew Lack and Sofia Sondervan; released by TriStar Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." ” Darnell Martin’s rollicking and insightful celebration of Chicago blues in its hectic golden age Jeffrey Wright plays the singer and guitarist Muddy Waters. This feat is made even more impressive and interesting when you reflect that in the same movie season Mr. Wright has portrayed another notable real-life African-American the former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell in Oliver Stone’s “W.” The man is equally credible as a statesman and a bluesman. If that’s not range what is?" Jeffrey Wright (Muddy Waters) Gabrielle Union (Geneva Wade) Columbus Short (Little Walter) Cedric the Entertainer (Willie Dixon) Emmanuelle Chriqui (Revetta Chess) Eamonn Walker (Howlin’ Wolf) Eric Bogosian (Alan Freed) Mos Def (Chuck Berry) and Beyoncé Knowles (Etta James)." exploited and given shiny new Caddies with heavy strings attached — by Leonard Chess (Adrien Brody) a Jewish entrepreneur in postwar Chicago who sees “race music” as a potential gold mine. That it also turns out to be an agent of wholesale cultural transformation — an old song observes that the blues had a baby and they called it rock ’n’ roll — does not faze him in the least." swearing sex and mayhem in excess which is just the right amount." and “Cadillac Records” is an uncommonly astute treatment of race in America at the end of the Jim Crow era. Its dense anecdotal narrative is built around the sometimes uneasy friendship between Leonard Chess and Muddy Waters his first big star. Chess is devoted to his artists but he also profits from their art and Mr. Brody shows him to be neither a paragon of racial enlightenment nor a predator." ” Howlin’ Wolf says to Muddy Waters who is hurt by what he sees as Chess’s double-dealing. “You’re from Mississippi. I thought you would have known that.”" and his work is enriched by the skill and verve of a prodigious ensemble. The film is not — thank goodness — another dutiful musical biopic but rather the group portrait of a remarkable volatile constellation of artists including Little Walter (Columbus Short) Chuck Berry (Mos Def) Etta James (Beyoncé Knowles) Howlin’ Wolf (Eamonn  Walker) and Willie Dixon the bassist and songwriter who narrates in the mellow countrified voice of Cedric the Entertainer." it should be said is Ms. Knowles’s performance. In her previous film roles she has seemed guarded and tentative as if worried that her charisma would melt from too much emotional heat. Here playing a needy angry ferociously talented and fantastically undisciplined woman she is as volcanic and voluptuous as an Italian movie star. Or more to the point a real soul diva of the old school." while Ms. Knowles’s interpretations of Ms. James’s hits — “At Last” and “I’d Rather Go Blind ” in particular — are downright revelatory." newly arrived in Chicago from Mississippi plugs his guitar into an amplifier a new sonic mutation occurs. Then Chuck Berry comes along playing in a speedier country-inflected style that makes him the first major star to cross from the R&B to the pop charts." so much pain so much tenderness and violence. If you dig up an album from the heyday of Chess Records you’ll find all that and more. And “Cadillac Records” is nearly as good as one of those albums which is saying a lot. This movie is crowded and sprawling and if it rambles sometimes that’s just fine. Like those big boxy Caddies (and like Howlin’ Wolf if he did say so himself) it’s built for comfort not for speed. It hums it purrs and it roars." Ms. Martin who wrote as well as directed “Cadillac Records ” does not need to lean too heavily on the historical record or on the dreary conventions of pop-culture hagiography because she has a clear and complicated set of ideas about her characters and a deep appreciation of the music they made. It is sadly all too rare for a movie about important musicians to pay intelligent attention to the sounds and idioms that make their lives worth dramatizing in the first place." hyperbole and sheer bunk as the history of American popular music and there will no doubt be pedants who will object to some of the liberties “Cadillac Records” has taken with the literal truth. At times Leonard Chess seems so stressed out by running the record company bearing his name that you wish he had say a brother to share the burden. The real Leonard Chess did but for now Phil Chess will have to join Nesuhi Ertegun brother of Ahmet in the ranks of music industry siblings neglected by Hollywood." Mr. Wright as protean and serious an actor as any working in American movies seems to be writing his own version of “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Black Man ” the literary scholar Henry Louis Gates Jr.’s collection of essays on various styles of African-American manhood." 
6666
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/05/movies/05nobe.html
who has directed one movie about ballroom dancing and another about the wine trade — apparently decided he wanted to become a tough guy or at least flex his genre muscles. Thus “Nobel Son ” an aggressively noisy exercise in style over substance about nasty people doing nasty things to one another in (sigh) Southern California. Like many contemporary genre flicks the new movie features a hyperactive visual style that owes its tricks and tics smeared images and staccato cuts to art-house exploitation like “City of God” and latter-day Tony Scott but without the commensurate technical finesse." nonsurgical removal of a thumb." who shortly after the story chugs to a start has won the Nobel Prize in chemistry a milestone that delights no one save for him. A world-class heel and adulterer a lousy father (to Bryan Greenberg’s Barkley) and worse husband (to Mary Steenburgen’s Sarah) Eli with his monstrous ego would be enough for a lot of movies but turns out to be merely the warm-up act for a chaotic plot involving a violent kidnapping a distant suicide murky secrets and outright distortions. Mr. Greenberg whose character is writing a dissertation about cannibalism (he appears to be pro) somehow crosses paths first with Eliza Dushku and then with Shawn Hatosy both of whom are better than their material." Michael J. Ozier; music by Paul Oakenfold and Mark Adler; production designer Craig Stearns; produced by Ms. Savin and Mr. Miller; released by Freestyle Releasing. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." Bryan Greenberg (Barkley Michaelson) Shawn Hatosy (Thaddeus James) Mary Steenburgen (Sarah Michaelson) Bill Pullman (Max Mariner) Eliza Dushku (City Hall) Danny DeVito (George Gastner) and Ted Danson (Harvey Parrish)." mostly a throbbing techno score and a showy disappointing performance from the almost always welcome Mr. Rickman. (He and Bill Pullman who has a small role in this film as the requisite rumpled cop were the headliners in “Bottle Shock.”) As Eli Mr. Rickman oozes from scene to scene doing a fair approximation of a lizard with a little Joan Crawford thrown in for good (or bad) measure. Although it’s amusing to watch him point his nose in the air while taking aim at the ostensibly nicer characters all of whom are even more tedious than Eli the performance grows thin fast. Even lizards and villains need a perch something more solid than noise and smears from which they can do their slithering." which wouldn’t be a problem if he seemed to be interested in playing with genre rather than condescending to it as he does here. But from story to casting “Nobel Son” feels designed for mockery from the stunt casting (Danny DeVito as a dim-bulb neighbor Ted Danson as a bow-tied academic) to the lazy parodies of coffeehouse poetry readings to the treatment of poor Ms. Dushku who as a wild-eyed poet who sleeps with the nominal hero not only has to play the crazy woman and a hack artist but also has to brandish her thong underwear. Isn’t being young and female in Hollywood punishment enough?" 
6667
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/05/movies/05ciao.html
“Ciao” involves two strangers  Adam Neal Smith as Jeff and Alessandro Calza as Andrea  who become acquaintances after the death of a mutual friend. Directed by Yen Tan who wrote the screenplay with Mr. Calza the story takes off (slowly) shortly after the mutual friend Mark (Charles W. Blaum) dies in an accident. Jeff mourns largely by staring off into space under the fixed gaze of Mr. Tan’s stationary camera. The movie picks up somewhat with the introduction of Andrea an Italian who hoped to consummate his and Mark’s online flirtation with a visit to the States.  Jeff suggests that Andrea stick to his travel plans. He does and you can guess the rest." Michael Victor Roy; edited by David Patrick Lowery; music by Stephan Altman; production designer Claire Floyd DeVries; produced by Jim McMahon Adam Neal Smith Mr. Calza Charles W. Blaum Ethel Lung John S. Boles and Margaret Lake; released by Regent Releasing and Here! Films. At the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. WITH: Charles W. Blaum (Mark) Adam Neal Smith (Jeff) John S. Boles (Larry) Margaret Lake (Margaret) Tiffany Vollmer (Doctor) and Alessandro Calza (Andrea)." “Ciao” weds a story that sounds (and often plays) like a pornographic quickie with a torturously ambitious visual style. Though it’s a bit of a relief that someone in American independent cinema apparently knows how to use a tripod Mr. Tan has only traded one contemporary visual cliché (dribbling camerawork) for another (the art-house long shot)." are milked dry and put out to pasture once again does not an art movie make. The shot has to have dynamism tension graphic interest beauty purpose passion. It has to vibrate like a living thing. It has to make the audience want to dig into the image and live in it (or at least visit it) not flee." 
6668
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/05/movies/05chir.html
Bobby (Justin Rice) a useless East Village hipster tucks into the American Apparel store on Houston Street and picks out a baby blue T-shirt with some help from Charlotte (Charlotte Af Geijerstam) a failed actress in hot pants and leg warmers. Later they meet for a drink and commiserate about their boring complacent privileged lives." ” Bobby muses “like the one that I dreamed about the one from the movies. It’s not there anymore. Maybe we’re both just maladjusted you know like we’re living in the past.”" the movie really does live in an imaginary past the one immortalized in classic Woody Allen films. How else to explain why Bobby and his circle of friends name-drop Chekhov pontificate on Bergman crack tired jokes about Los Angeles and spend all their time either failing at relationships or kvetching  about their inadequacies while whimsical jazz coos on the soundtrack?" it’s intolerable." directed and edited by Jonathan Blitstein; director of photography Andrew Shulkind; music by Giulio Carmassi; produced by Mr. Blitstein and Anouk Frosch. At Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 31 minutes. This film is not rated." Brendan Sexton III (Scott) Laura Breckenridge (Dara) Zach Galligan (Hart) Pepper Binkley (Michelle) Charlotte Af Geijerstam (Charlotte) and Ilana Meredith (Deirdre)." for one brief moment does “Let Them Chirp Awhile” acknowledge the source of its painfully unsympathetic take on postcollegiate New Yorkers who think themselves artists but don’t have an original thought in their heads." 
6669
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/05/movies/05puni.html
better known as the Punisher in the punishing new entertainment called “Punisher: War Zone.”  It’s a fair enough question but the one I had as I sat through 107 bloody grinding minutes was a little different: What did I ever do to deserve this?" I know. It’s silly to take the brutality of “Punisher: War Zone ” which is based on a comic book with a devoted following seriously or personally. Guys get their heads blown off or severed or pierced with chair legs or pulverized with fists because that’s what they have coming and that’s what the fan base will pay money to see. But does it have to be so witless so stupid so openly contemptuous of the very audience it’s supposed to be pandering to?" Art Marcum and Matt Holloway based on Marvel’s Punisher comic-book series; director of photography Steve Gainer; edited by William Yeh; music by Michael Wandmacher; production designer Andrew Neskoromny; produced by Gale Anne Hurd; released by Lionsgate and Marvel Knights. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes. WITH: Ray Stevenson (Frank Castle) Dominic West (Billy Russoti/Jigsaw) Julie Benz (Angela) Colin Salmon (Paul Budiansky) Doug Hutchison (Loony Bin Jim) Dash Mihok (Martin Soap) and Wayne Knight (Micro)." directed with grisly intensity by Lexi Alexander is a big bloody cartoon. At its center is a grim humorless avenger whose nemesis is a onetime mobster named Jigsaw (Dominic West) so called because his face was disfigured in a recycling accident. Jigsaw has a crazy brother named Loony Bin Jim (Doug Hutchison) — but really why bother? You will see this movie or not and it will make about as much sense to you either way. There is however one line that is if not quite clever at least relevant for the purposes of concluding this review. As the Punisher says to a bad guy he’s about to waste “I guess I’ll put you out of my misery.”" 
6670
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/05/movies/05ball.html
sensitive young people for whom a tentative shared kiss is a very big deal." Luke Ford (Charlie) Gemma Ward (Jackie) Erik Thomson (Simon) and Toni Collette (Maggie)." ” directed by Elissa Down was inspired by her experiences growing up in a household with two autistic brothers the  younger of whom served as the model for Charlie (Luke Ford) a mute who communicates in sign language and heaving wheezing grunts. When calm Charlie is adorably playful and cuddlesome but when agitated which is often he makes noises that assume a feral intensity." Queens." Thomas (Rhys Wakefield) a shy 15-year-old whose love for Charlie is increasingly compromised by his embarrassment.  As the new kid  at his school Thomas is something of a fish out of water himself; barely able to swim he struggles to stay afloat during lifesaving classes.  He is so ashamed of Charlie who attends a school for the disabled that when Jackie (Gemma Ward) a sweet attractive girl his own age comes calling he futilely tries to keep him out of sight." who hasn’t a shred of vanity virtually disappears into the complicated characters she plays and Maggie is one of the strongest. With every forceful gesture and glaring look Ms. Collette portrays Maggie as an indefatigable woman of heart and sinew who through sheer determination holds off chaos." with Thomas in frantic pursuit dashes through the neighborhood and into a strange house to use the bathroom. In a supermarket checkout line he flops onto the floor and begins bellowing when Simon asks him to return some items to the shelves; eventually  he has to be dragged out of the store screaming. At one point an angry neighbor summons child services to the Mollisons’ home." Charlie is discovered in his room smearing his feces on the carpet and over his body. Thomas is expected to clean up the mess. His growing sense of being trapped by his brother’s disability is evoked in moments  when he anxiously listens to Charlie’s noises and to the squall of the newborn through the door of his room." during uncontrollable tantrums he becomes a desperate wild animal flailing and spitting and biting. Mr. Ford who was seen earlier this year as the hero’s rambunctious son in “The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor ” makes Charlie a character whose complexity transcends his disability; you can almost decipher the words he is unable to speak." Maggie (Toni Collette) only days away from giving birth to a third child refuses the bed rest ordered by her doctors. When she goes to the hospital to give birth her husband Simon (Erik Thomson) a gruff good-hearted army officer mistakenly imagines that the house can run smoothly while she is away. No sooner has she left than Charlie begins wreaking havoc." ” a harrowing unsentimental portrait of a middle-class Australian family whose oldest son has severe autism compounded by attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.  Would you find in yourself the seemingly infinite reserves of love and patience possessed by the Mollisons the movie’s itinerant highly stressed army family who have just moved to the suburbs of Sydney? Maybe not." Denson Baker; edited by Veronica Jenet; music by Michael Yezerski; production designer Nicholas McCallum; produced by Tristram Miall; released by NeoClassics Films Ltd. In Manhattan at the AMC Empire 25 234 West 42nd Street. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is rated PG-13." 
6671
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/03/movies/03dust.html
after all to limit yourself to the handful of insights and speculations offered by “Dust.” You will have a new appreciation of those motes swirling in the projector beam which have been haunting movie theaters for more than a century waiting for their turn on screen." ” wrote T. S. Eliot a boast that will seem unduly modest once you have seen “Dust ” Hartmut Bitomsky’s eccentric and profoundly informative documentary. First of all a handful is a trifling quantity when you consider just how much of the stuff there is in the world and fear is only one of the surprisingly intense responses Mr. Bitomsky conjures up. There is also revulsion awe and in the end a peculiar kind of affection." Mr. Bitomsky sometimes meanders into thickets of abstraction or off on puzzling tangents. The talking-head reflections of scientists artists and other dust mavens are often thought-provoking but they also tend toward a dry Germanic didacticism." a German documentarian of impressive patience and patient curiosity collects dust with scholarly thoroughness and poetic zeal. His film is both an essay and an exposé a meditation on the philosophical implications of dust — which exists according to one of his interview subjects in a liminal state between matter and nonmatter — and an analysis of its place in the physical world." witty deadpan — is more consistently engaging and holds together the odd and disparate ideas that dust seems to attract." of course everywhere. Scenes of professional cleaners in offices and laboratories and of ordinary people tidying up their homes only emphasize the futility of trying to control or eradicate dust. And visits to abandoned industrial sites and demolished buildings show that left to its own devices dust will take over the world." like boulders or buildings." or if different versions of this movie might have been made in other countries. Comprehensive though it is “Dust” feels like a preliminary investigation a pilot for a multi-episode hundred-hour series that would track dust all around the world." 
6672
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/03/movies/03end.html
” an unsettling documentary polemic about the erosion of civil liberties in the wake of 9/11 brings up matters many of us would rather not contemplate in the middle of a financial crisis and on the eve of a new administration. Federal laws enacted during the last seven years that threaten our constitutional rights it reminds us remain in effect." there is still enough here to make you shiver. Could it happen here? Maybe. A little fear   not the collective panic that followed 9/11   can be a useful thing." the equating of political dissidents with traitors fleetingly examines the Bush administration’s floating of the word “treason” to describe The New York Times’s publication of classified information about the government’s monitoring of overseas telephone calls. All these middle steps might be described as examples of selective intimidation intended to inhibit dissent. The case histories are glossed over." the overwhelming public reaction to the Patriot Act of 2001 which gave law enforcement agencies expanded powers of surveillance was mute acceptance of whatever was deemed necessary to keep us safe. Since then she says a color-coded system of terror alerts has been effectively wielded to keep us on edge." selecting key individuals for harassment cites the Dixie Chicks and Dan Rather as prominent cases. The eighth step the restriction of the press focuses on the case of Josh Wolf a journalist jailed for 226 days for refusing to turn over videotapes he made of police brutality at a July 2005 demonstration in San Francisco." the first and fundamental tool for acquiring power is the manipulation of fear. In the shell-shocked post-" “The End of America ” directed by Annie Sundberg and Ricki Stern (“The Devil Came on Horseback”) interweaves excerpts from a lecture in New York given by Ms. Wolf with film clips and interviews illustrating her contention that the rise of those dictatorships created a “blueprint” that the Bush administration consciously or not has followed." a United States Army chaplain at Guantánamo who was accused of espionage and held in solitary confinement for 76 days before being released and Maher Arar a Syrian-born Canadian telecommunications engineer who was detained at Kennedy International Airport then later deported to Syria where he was imprisoned for a year and tortured. He was eventually cleared of charges of terrorism." Ms. Wolf describes a 10-step program toward authoritarian rule that includes the creation of secret prisons where torture takes place; the deployment of a paramilitary force (Blackwater which the film calls a contemporary American variation on Mussolini’s private army of “black shirts”); the development of an internal surveillance system; the harassment of citizens’ groups; and the arbitrary detention and release of ordinary civilians." adapted from Naomi Wolf’s book “The End of America: A Letter of Warning to a Young Patriot ” compares the Bush administration’s attempts to discourage dissent and to wield increasingly unchecked power to the events preceding the establishment of 20th-century dictatorships in Germany Italy Chile and elsewhere. Without explicitly invoking the word it implies that since 2001 the United States has drifted toward fascism in the name of fighting terror." 
6673
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/28/movies/28anta.html
Ziv Berkovich; edited by Anat Salomon; music by Eli Soorani with original songs by Shirly Solomon; produced by Eitan Reuven; released by Regent Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. In Hebrew with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes. WITH: Tomer Ilan (Omer) Lucy Dubinchik (Shirley) Guy Zo-Aretz (Ronen) Liat Akta (Michal) Yiftach Mizrahi (Danny) and Ofer Regirer (Boaz)." “Antarctica” wallows in casual lust and bored disaffection. Perhaps he should have focused more on writing dialogue and less on choosing head shots." “Antarctica” serves up gay life in Tel Aviv as a frozen wasteland of casual hookups and emotional vacancy. The writer and director Yair Hochner has called his film in part a romantic comedy.  But after waiting in vain for a single instance of humor or genuine connection I can only conclude that in Mr. Hochner’s eyes casting a drag queen as someone’s mother and throwing in a handful of alien abductees is the height of hilarity. Even the magnificent Divine needed a decent script." dark-haired and hard-bodied — lovers including a hot librarian (Tomer Ilan) a foxy journalist (Guy Zo-Aretz) and a virginal young dancer (Yiftach Mizrahi). Only Mr. Zo-Aretz holding himself at a  watchful  remove from the script’s aimless ditherings (including a throwaway lesbian subplot) suggests a character in possession of an inner life." 
6674
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/26/movies/26milk.html
and an insurance executive in a suit and tie catches sight of a beautiful scruffy younger man — the phrase “angel-headed hipster” comes to mind — and banters with him on the stairs. The mood of the moment which ends up with the two men eating birthday cake in bed is casual and sexy and its flirtatious playfulness is somewhat disarming given our expectation of a serious and important movie grounded in historical events. “Milk ” directed by Gus Van Sant from a script by Dustin Lance Black is certainly such a film but it manages to evade many of the traps and compromises of the period biopic with a grace and tenacity worthy of its title character." Milk’s erstwhile colleague and eventual assassin haunts the edges of the movie representing both the banality and the enigma of evil. Mr. Brolin makes him seem at once pitiable and scary without making him look like a monster or a clown. Motives for White’s crime are suggested in the film but too neat an accounting of them would distort the awful truth of the story and undermine the power of the movie." Los Angeles and San Francisco." eventful hours “Milk” conforms to many of the conventions of biographical filmmaking if not always to the precise details of the hero’s biography. Milk’s inexhaustible political commitment takes its toll on his relationships first with Scott and then with Jack Lira an impulsive unstable young man played by Diego Luna with an operatic verve that stops just short of camp." its ability to be about nearly everything — love death politics sex modernity — without losing sight of the intimate particulars of its story. Harvey Milk was an intriguing inspiring figure. “Milk” is a marvel." sometimes glorious intersection of grubby interests and noble ideals. Shortly after moving with Scott from New York to the Castro section of San Francisco Milk begins organizing the gay residents of that neighborhood seeking out allies among businessmen labor unions and other groups." and I want to recruit you.” That was an opening line that the real Milk often used in his speeches to break the tension with straight audiences but the film shows him deploying it with mostly gay crowds as well with a slightly different inflection. He wants to recruit them into the politics of democracy to persuade them that the stigma and discrimination they are used to enduring quietly and even guiltily can be addressed by voting by demonstrating by claiming the share of power that is every citizen’s birthright and responsibility." Emile Hirsch (Cleve Jones) Josh Brolin (Dan White) Diego Luna (Jack Lira) Alison Pill (Anne Kronenberg) Victor Garber (Mayor George Moscone) Denis O’Hare (John Briggs) Joseph Cross (Dick Pabich) Stephen Spinella (Rick Stokes) Lucas Grabeel (Danny Nicoletta) Brandon Boyce (Jim Rivaldo) Zvi Howard Rosenman (David Goodstein) Kelvin Yu (Michael Wong) and James Franco (Scott Smith)." sunny feel-good movie or that its hero is a shiny liberal saint. There is righteous anger in this movie and also an arresting moody lyricism. Mr. Van Sant has frequently practiced a kind of detached romanticism letting his stories unfold matter-of-factly while infusing them with touches of melancholy beauty. (He is helped here by Danny Elfman’s elegant score and by the expressive cinematography of Harris Savides whose touch when it comes to framing and focus could more aptly be called a caress.)" Harris Savides; edited by Elliot Graham; music by Danny Elfman; production designer Bill Groom; produced by Dan Jinks and Bruce Cohen; released by Focus Features. Running time: 2 hours 8 minutes." his insistence on being who he is without secrecy or shame is what turns Milk from a bohemian camera store owner (after his flight from New York and the insurance business) into a political leader." discomfited by his confrontational tactics keeps Milk at a distance leaving him to build a movement from the ground up with the help of a young rabble-rouser and ex-hustler named Cleve Jones (Emile Hirsch)." Mr. Van Sant has devoted himself to smaller-scale projects some of them (like the Palme d’Or-winning provocation “Elephant”) employing nonprofessional actors and none of them much concerned with soliciting the approval of the mass audience. “Gerry ” “Elephant ” “Last Days” and “Paranoid Park” are linked by a spirit of formal exploration — elements of Mr. Van Sant’s experimental style include long tracking shots; oblique fractured narratives; and a way of composing scenes that emphasizes visual and aural texture over conventional dramatic exposition — and also by a preoccupation with death." “Milk” is the chronicle of a death foretold. Before that subway station encounter we have already seen real-life news video of the aftermath of Milk’s assassination as well as grainy photographs of gay men being rounded up by the police. These images don’t spoil the intimacy between Harvey the buttoned-up businessman and Scott Smith (James Franco) the hippie who becomes his live-in lover and first campaign manager. Rather the constant risk of harassment humiliation and violence is the defining context of that intimacy." local San Francisco issues are overshadowed by a statewide anti-gay-rights referendum and the national crusade led by the orange-juice spokesmodel Anita Bryant to repeal municipal antidiscrimination laws. The culture war is unfolding and Milk is in the middle of it. (And so 30 years later in the wake of Proposition 8 is “Milk.”)" brief violence and a few discreet sex scenes." multi-layered history lesson. In its scale and visual variety it feels almost like a calmed-down Oliver Stone movie stripped of hyperbole and Oedipal melodrama. But it is also a film that like Mr. Van Sant’s other recent work — and also curiously like David Fincher’s “Zodiac ” another San Francisco-based tale of the 1970s — respects the limits of psychological and sociological explanation." a neighborhood activist elected to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1977 and murdered along with the city’s mayor George Moscone (Victor Garber) by a former supervisor named Dan White (Josh Brolin) the next year. Notwithstanding the modesty of his office and the tragic foreshortening of his tenure Milk among the first openly gay elected officials in the country had a profound impact on national politics and his rich afterlife in American culture has affirmed his status as pioneer and martyr. His brief career has inspired an opera by Stewart Wallace an excellent documentary film (“The Times of Harvey Milk ” by Rob Epstein from 1984) and now “Milk ” which is the best live-action mainstream American movie that I have  seen this year.  This is not faint praise by the way even though 2008 has been a middling year for Hollywood. “Milk” is accessible and instructive an astute chronicle of big-city politics and the portrait of a warrior whose passion was equaled by his generosity and good humor. Mr. Penn an actor of unmatched emotional intensity and physical discipline outdoes himself here playing a character different from any he has portrayed before." say Jimmy Markum Mr. Penn’s brooding ex-convict in Clint Eastwood’s “Mystic River ” Harvey Milk is an extrovert and an ironist a man whose expansive sometimes sloppy self-presentation camouflages an incisive mind and a ferociously stubborn will. All of this Mr. Penn captures effortlessly through voice and gesture but what is most arresting is the sense he conveys of Milk’s fundamental kindness a personal virtue that also functions as a political principle." 
6675
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/26/movies/26secr.html
the two friends almost accidentally become lovers. Naomi consulting sacred texts determines there is no law against lesbian love that homosexuality is taboo only for men who spill their seed." who is not Jewish insists the homicide was not premeditated but an act of self-defense. For reasons that are never satisfactorily explained she begs Naomi and Michelle to lead her through a series of Kabbalistic cleansing rites that are available only to Jews." Ania Bukstein (Naomi) Michal Shtamler (Michelle) Adir Miller (Yanki) Guri Alfi (Michael) Alma Zak (Racheli) and Sefi Rivlin (Rabbi Hess)." Naomi entreats her father to postpone her coming marriage to his sour self-righteous protégé Michael (Guri Alfi) so she can pursue her religious studies at a seminary for women in Safed the birthplace of the Kabbalah. Her distant dream is one day to become the first female Orthodox rabbi in a culture in which the men smugly dismiss women’s conversations as “idle chat.”" whose sympathetic headmistress shares her dream but advises patience “The Secrets” steadily metamorphoses into a romantic tearjerker. Naomi’s arrogance and rigidity begin to break down when she forms a friendship with Michelle  (Michal Shtamler) a sullen chain-smoking Parisian student who is one of her three roommates." a dying woman with a scandalous past who lives near the seminary." raven-haired pariah Anouk spent 15 years in prison for killing her lover an Israeli painter for whom she had abandoned her husband and two children and whom she followed to Israel. When she shows Naomi and Michelle some of her lover’s erotic paintings in which she is the subject the young women turn away their heads. To them the notion of a woman’s abandoning herself to such passion is almost inconceivable." moving away from cultural barriers and becoming a star-crossed love story in which Michelle is torn between Naomi and a kind-hearted klezmer clarinetist (Adir Miller) it risks becoming mawkish. But the passionate performances of Ms. Bukstein Ms. Shtamler and Ms. Ardant lend “The Secrets” enough emotional solidity to prevent it from entirely dissolving in the suds." the stubborn heroine of “The Secrets ” a religious soap opera and feminist cri de coeur is the brilliant beautiful headstrong daughter of a revered Orthodox Israeli rabbi (Sefi Rivlin). Exceptionally well schooled in Jewish law she is the pride and joy of her father to the degree that she has shed no tears over the recent death of her chronically depressed mother." Naomi feels valued within the Orthodox Jewish environment and entertains the possibility that it holds a place for her beyond one of blind subservience to male authority." the movie directed by the Israeli filmmaker Avi Nesher from a screenplay he wrote with Hadar Galron a London-born feminist playwright actress and Orthodox Jew is a sober exploration of limited female opportunities in a rigidly patriarchal environment. But after two French characters one played by the great French actress Fanny Ardant are introduced the movie becomes an intriguing occasionally discordant hybrid of austere Israeli and voluptuous French filmmaking traditions. Although the story remains in Israel in spirit the movie migrates from the Middle East to France before returning to Israel for a pat feel-good ending." which involve a fair amount of physical self-mortification. As Anouk’s strength ebbs their sessions with her become a spiritual rescue mission with a deadline." Michel Abramowicz; edited by Isaac Sehayek; music by Daniel Salomon; production designer Yoram Shayer; produced by Mr. Nesher and David Silber; released by Monterey Media Inc. In Hebrew and French with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 7 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6676
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/26/movies/26tran.html
the smackdowns have retained their zing partly because of Mr. Yuen and partly because Mr. Statham never looks better than when he’s taking aim at a group of men with his bullet head and a suit that ensures he’s dressed to kill." Natalya Rudakova (Valentina) François Berléand (Tarconi) and Robert Knepper (Johnson)." but much remains the same just with a longer running time." based on characters created by Mr. Besson and Mr. Kamen; director of photography Giovanni Fiore Coltellacci; edited by Camille Delamarre and Carlo Rizzo; music by Alexandre Azaria; production designer Patrick Durand; produced by Mr. Besson and Steven Chasman; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." the martial-arts choreographer Cory Yuen who also directed the first movie cooks up some lively fist-to-face brawls several of which make amusing use of Frank’s natty tailoring and body sculpting. Most men just wear their suits and some suits wear the men but Mr. Statham actually turns his industrial-strength threads into a lasso a weapon a shield." Jason Statham stars as Frank Martin a taciturn hard-body for hire who when not lolling around his swank Mediterranean bachelor pad or palling around with his police buddy (François Berléand) racks up kilometers ferrying valuables across borders and genre imperatives in his sleek ride." 
6677
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/26/movies/26chri.html
Caleb Wilson Jon Lucas and Scott Moore based on a story by Mr. Allen and Mr. Wilson; director of photography Jeffrey L. Kimball; edited by Mark Helfrich and Melissa Kent; music by Alex Wurman; production designer Shepherd Frankel; produced by Roger Birnbaum Gary Barber and Jonathan Glickman; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes." but at 86 minutes divided into four farcical set pieces plus necessary exposition denouement and interstitial drive time it’s an efficient and stress-free entertainment package. For the audience that is. The main characters seem pretty miserable most of the time which is as it should be." ” Brad’s childhood best friend tells him. It’s much funnier as well as more appalling in context." either out of respect for tradition or sheer spite at least one Hollywood studio is sure to release a drippily sentimental gratingly cheerful “comedy ” indigestible as a fruitcake and disposable as wrapping paper. All appearances to the contrary “Four Christmases” is not this year’s version. Yes it follows a charming mismatched couple on a sentimental journey involving presents family and the sharing of food and feelings but the picture briskly directed by Seth Gordon from a snappy many-authored script is refreshingly tart and lean forgoing the usual schmaltz and syrup." a pair of semi-professional extreme cage fighters are Tim McGraw and Jon Favreau and the generally high caliber of the supporting performances — Dwight Yoakam as Pastor Phil Kate’s mom’s latest boyfriend also deserves mention — goes a long way toward making “Four Christmases” palatable." fun-loving San Francisco couple they have tactfully estranged themselves from parents stepparents and siblings. Each Christmas Kate and Brad invent an exotic charity project as cover for a hedonistic jaunt that takes them far from the claims of kin. This year though their planned escape is foiled and they must run a grueling (and surprisingly brutal) gantlet through the homes of four divorced parents enduring awkwardness humiliation and sexual ickiness." Reese Witherspoon (Kate) Robert Duvall (Howard) Jon Favreau (Denver) Mary Steenburgen (Marilyn) Dwight Yoakam (Pastor Phil) Tim McGraw (Dallas) Kristin Chenoweth (Courtney) Jon Voight (Creighton) and Sissy Spacek (Paula)." “Four Christmases” makes merry with an impressive range of modern American social awfulness. In its view of the discomfort that persists between parents and their grown-up children it flirts with the misanthropy encapsulated in Philip Larkin’s poem “This Be the Verse ” which begins with an unprintable axiom and concludes with the advice to “get out as early as you can/and don’t have any kids yourself.”" who basically does what he always does which is to stammer bluster and wheedle his way through a performance that scrambles the distinction between brute and wimp. He has a tendency slyly mocked in a church pageant scene to upstage whomever he’s paired with and Ms. Witherspoon though a fine comedian in her own right is perhaps a bit too decorous and obliging." as they fit into the frame like Gandalf and Frodo or Marmaduke and a Hummel figurine. There are other reasons not to believe them as a couple one being that no sane woman could endure more than 90 minutes of Brad’s company. But since you don’t even have to endure that much it really isn’t your problem." a curious casting choice unless the editors left out a flashback in which the infant Brad fell into a vat of human growth hormone. Kate’s parents are played by Mary Steenburgen and all too briefly Jon Voight and her undermining aggressively fertile sister by Kristin Chenoweth." 
6678
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/26/movies/26aust.html
many stampeding hooves." Mr. Luhrmann doesn’t simply want to rouse your laughter and tears: he wants to rouse you out of a sensory-overloaded stupor with jolts of passion and fabulous visions. That may make him sound a wee bit Brechtian but he’s really just an old-fashioned movie man the kind who never lets good taste get in the way of rip-roaring entertainment. The usual line about kitsch is that it’s an affront a cheapening of the culture a danger. “Kitsch causes two tears to flow in quick succession ” Milan Kundera wrote. “The first tear says: How nice to see children running on the grass! The second tear says: How nice to be moved together with all mankind by children running on the grass! It is the second tear that makes kitsch kitsch.”" Stuart Beattie Ronald Harwood and Richard Flanagan; director of photography Mandy Walker; edited by Dody Dorn and Michael McCusker; music by David Hirschfelder; production designer Catherine Martin; produced by Mr. Luhrmann G. Mac Brown and Catherine Knapman; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 2 hours 35 minutes." “Australia ” isn’t the greatest story ever — it’s several dozen of the greatest stories ever told “The African Queen ”  “Gone With the Wind” and “Once Upon a Time in the West”  included. A pastiche of genres and references wrapped up — though more often than not whipped up — into one demented and generally diverting horse-galloping cattle-stampeding camera-swooping music-swelling mood-altering widescreen package this creation story about modern Australia is a testament to movie love at its most devout cinematic spectacle at its most extreme and kitsch as an act of aesthetic communion." Nullah included Ms. Kidman tethers “Australia” to the world of human feeling and brings Mr. Luhrmann’s outrageous flights of fancy down to earth. That may not be where he prefers to make movies but it’s a necessary place for even a fantasist to visit. Although many of his Western contemporaries like to root around in down-and-dirty realism Mr. Luhrmann maintains a full-throttle commitment to cinematic illusion and what he characterizes as the “heightened artifice” of his so-called Red Curtain trilogy “Strictly Ballroom ” “William Shakespeare’s Romeo + Juliet” and “Moulin Rouge.” You may not always see the people for the production design in these but when you do — as in “Romeo + Juliet” and sometimes here — they spring forth from their fantastical milieus like  fists." whose early murder sets all the narrative pieces in place. Initially intent on selling her property including 1 500 head of cattle Sarah soon transforms into a frontierswoman seduced by Nullah’s smile and the majestic valleys and peaks of both the land and of the Drover’s musculature. Although Ms. Kidman and Mr. Jackman are initially riffing on Katharine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart’s prickly courtship in “The African Queen” — later as they heat up they slip into a sexier Scarlett-and-Rhett dynamic — only Ms. Kidman really embraces the more comic and potentially embarrassing aspects of her role giving herself over to Mr. Luhrmann and his occasionally cruel camera with a pronounced lack of vanity." if also sometimes confused and confusing: though there is no denying the scope and towering ambition of “Australia ” which was largely shot on location in the outback it can be difficult to gauge Mr. Luhrmann’s intentions or rather his level of self-awareness. The film begins with some text that scrolls importantly across the screen immediately setting the uncertain tone with some (serious?) twaddle about Australia as a land of “adventure and romance.” Before you have a chance to harrumph indignantly about the oppression of the Aborigines (or sneer at the country’s early imported criminal population) the text has skipped to the topic of “the stolen generations ” the children of indigenous peoples who from the 19th century well into the 20th were forcibly separated from their cultures by white Australians in the name of God and civilization." Hugh Jackman (the Drover) David Wenham (Neil Fletcher) Bryan Brown (King Carney) Jack Thompson (Kipling Flynn) David Gulpilil (King George) and Brandon Walters (Nullah)." Ms. Kidman has in recent years generally erred on the side of physical perfection sometimes to the detriment of her performances. But she’s wonderfully and fully expressive here from wince-worthy start to heartbreaking finish whether she’s wrinkling her nose in mock disgust or rushing across a dusty field her arms pumping so wildly that it’s a wonder well water doesn’t spring from her mouth. It’s a ludicrous role — not long after priming her pump the barren widow turns into a veritable fertility goddess — but she rides Sarah’s and the story’s ups and downs  with ease. Mr. Jackman gives the movie oomph; Ms. Kidman gives it a  performance." Nullah (the newcomer Brandon Walters) the illegitimate son of an Aboriginal mother and a white father who is trying to escape the authorities and while it opens in 1939 shortly before World War II blasted Australian shores the film isn’t a bummer. Like every other weighty or would-be weighty moment that passes through Mr. Luhrmann’s  soft-filtering lens — a man being trampled to death by rampaging cattle or a city being annihilated by bombing Japanese warplanes — the calamities of history are merely colorful grist for his main interest the romance between a wilted English rose Lady Sarah Ashley (Nicole Kidman) and an itinerant Australian cattleman the Drover (Hugh Jackman)." but it doesn’t make  the   second tear any less wet." as it can with art world jesters like Jeff Koons and Takashi Murakami who have appropriated kitsch as a (more or less) legitimate postmodern strategy. Instead it feels — feeling being paramount in all of Mr. Luhrmann’s films — like a sincere cry from the swelling throbbing heart a true expression of self. And while that self and its gaudy work may be stitched together from the bits and pieces of pop culture — the son of a movie-theater owner Mr. Luhrmann grew up worshiping at the altar of Hollywood — they are also wholly sincere." 
6679
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/21/movies/21were.html
San Francisco and Berkeley Calif." but once its tone is established its charm overcomes the inevitable weaknesses of a musical made on a stringent budget. Like its Disney counterparts it operates on the assumption that the movie musical is a world unto itself in which ordinary rules of logic don’t apply. One thing doesn’t have to lead to another and not everything need be explained. Movie-musical magic makes up the difference." played on guitar and sung by Timothy’s sullen friend Frankie (Zelda Williams daughter of Robin) a self-possessed tomboy who describes herself as “hetero-flexible.” Frankie morosely takes it in stride when Timothy experiments with the love juice on Max (Ricky Goldman) his best friend and her crush." ” an indie alternative to Disney’s “High School Musical” franchise Timothy (Tanner Cohen) a persecuted gay student at a private boys’ school outside Chicago acquires such magic while rehearsing the role of Puck in “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.”" and lyrics (some original and others adapted from Shakespeare) by Mr. Krueckeberg it is an enchanting mildly subversive fantasia that reconciles sassy teenage argot with Elizabethan. One moment it is this the next that. Ms. Fogle’s most striking music especially the title song sets Shakespearean dialogue in an ethereal Minimalist style that has the entranced intensity of centuries-old sacred music." Donna and Nora are John Waters-style female caricatures. So is the film’s mysteriously powerful guardian angel Ms. Tebbit (Wendy Robie) the airy arty English teacher who casts the Shakespeare production oversees rehearsals and refuses to shut it down after the town goes erotically bonkers." Wendy Robie (Ms. Tebbit) Judy McLane (Donna) Zelda Williams (Frankie) Jill Larson (Nora Bellinger) Ricky Goldman (Max) David Darlow (Lawrence Bellinger) and Nathaniel David Becker (Jonathon)." who bears a strong resemblance to Patricia Clarkson plays the teacher as a benign sorceress who wears a secretive smile while using  “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” to impart some lessons in tolerance. In what is shown of the final production the gawky high school boys playing both men’s and women’s roles have turned into graceful actors comfortable with Elizabethan English." every helpless target of such magic falls madly in love with the first person in sight inappropriate or not. And for the next 24 hours Timothy dashes around his small town making unsuspecting homophobes including the rugby coach fall ridiculously in love with dumbfounded members of the same sex; before long the streets are crawling with cow-eyed spooning gay couples." Donna (Judy McLane) who is having difficulty coming to terms with his sexuality. Donna takes a job as a door-to-door saleswoman for the cosmetics line invented by  Nora (Jill Larson) the vain bigoted wife of the school’s stuffy headmaster (David Darlow)." Kira Kelly; edited by Jennifer Lilly; music by Jessica Fogle adapted and original lyrics by Mr. Krueckeberg; choreography by Todd Underwood; production designer Mr. Krueckeberg; produced by Mr. Gustafson Mr. Krueckeberg and Peter Sterling; released by Speak Productions. In Manhattan at  Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." Timothy plucks it and later tosses its liquid into the eyes of his secret crush Jonathon (Nathaniel David Becker) the ostensibly straight star of the rugby team. Mutual puppy love is instantaneous and intense." endearing film directed by Tom Gustafson from a screenplay he wrote with Cory James Krueckeberg has already won a number of awards including outstanding narrative feature at Outfest the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Film Festival. In its giddiness “Were the World Mine” echoes “High School Musical 3” right down to featuring balletic choreography on a basketball court." 
6680
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/21/movies/21spec.html
Paul Blackthorne (Jonas Exiler) Josh Peck (Joey) Robert Baker (Everett) Jack Kehler (Dr. Dobson) and Ian Bohen (Ted Exiler)." Nelson Cragg; edited by Mike Saenz; music by Tom Wolfe and Manish Raval; production designer Nathan Amondson; produced by Edward Parks and Frank Mele; released by Magnet Releasing. At the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes." Les Franken (Michael Rapaport) with a double dose of movie-loser shorthand: he’s a traffic cop and comic-book fan. But a funny thing happens after he starts popping an experimental antidepressant called specioprin hydrochloride (trade-named “Special”). Les develops the ability to levitate walk through walls and read people’s minds." “Special” puts an indie spin on the current Hollywood vogue for moody superhero psychodrama. Or looked at another way it puts a Hollywood spin on the indie vogue for tales of solipsistic man-boys." it doesn’t quite go far enough as psychological study or cultural commentary. Though Mr. Rapaport is affecting (and well cast) as Les the character often feels condescended to and his inner conflict becomes stranded in some desultory plot mechanics involving shady drug company executives." 
6681
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/21/movies/21twil.html
” notably during a charming scene that finds them leaping from piney treetop to treetop against the spectacular wilderness backdrop the story’s moral undertow keeps dragging them down. If Ms. Meyer has made the vampire story safe for her readers (and their parents) — the sole real menace comes from a half-baked subplot involving some swaggering vampires who like their steak saignant and human — it’s only because she suggests that there actually is something worse than death especially for teenagers: sex. Faced with the partially clad Bella (who would bite if she could) Edward recoils from her like a distraught Victorian. Like Ms. Hardwicke the poor boy has been defanged and almost entirely drained. He’s so lifeless he might as well be dead — oops he already is." reader she doesn’t the she being Bella (for Isabella) Swan played with tremulous intensity and a slight snarl by Kristen Stewart. A sylph with a watchful sometimes wary gaze who’s often cast in daughter roles Ms. Stewart transformed from an appealing actress into something more complex with her brief memorable turn in the 2007 movie of Jon Krakauer’s book “Into the Wild.” As the child-woman whose longing for the ill-fated wanderer Christopher McCandless is largely expressed through piercing looks and sensitive strumming Ms. Stewart gave form and feeling to the possibility that the search for freedom and authentic experiences can be found in the embrace of another human being. This was a girl worth living for if not for that film’s lost soul." Robert Pattinson (Edward Cullen) Billy Burke (Charlie Swan) Ashley Greene (Alice Cullen) Nikki Reed (Rosalie Cullen) Jackson Rathbone (Jasper Cullen) Kellan Lutz (Emmett Cullen) Peter Facinelli (Dr. Carlisle Cullen) Cam Gigandet (James/Nomad Vampire) Taylor Lautner (Jacob) Anna Kendrick (Jessica) Michael Welch (Mike Newton) and Justin Chon (Eric)." the trick that transformed her into a best-selling brand has been to stanch this sanguineous emission turning a hot human flow into something less threatening and morally sticky. Edward you see burns but doesn’t bite. As in the book he leads a numbingly quiet respectable life with his vampire family in Forks a small Washington town under a near-permanent cloud cover. His father Carlisle (Peter Facinelli) a doctor with a ghostly pallor and silky gait tends to the living while the rest of the brood including his monochromatic mother and siblings strike pretty poses play baseball (in thunder and lightning) and occasionally hunt for animals. We think of ourselves as vegetarians Edward jokes." ” a deeply sincere outright goofy vampire romance for the hot-not-to-trot abstinence set. Based on the foundational book in Stephenie Meyer’s best-selling multivolume series “The Twilight Saga” (four doorstops and counting) this carefully faithful adaptation traces the sighs and whispers the shy glances and furious glares of two unlikely teenage lovers who fall into each other’s pale pale arms amid swirling hormones raging instincts high school dramas and oh-so-confusing feelings like OMG he’s SO HOT!! Does he like ME?? Will he KILL me??? I don’t CARE!!! :)" based on the novel by Stephenie Meyer; director of photography Elliot Davis; edited by Nancy Richardson; music by Carter Burwell; produced by Greg Mooradian Mark Morgan and Wyck Godfrey; released by Summit Entertainment. Running time: 2 hours 1 minute." little viscera." but it also means he’s a bore despite the efforts of the capable and exotically beautiful Mr. Pattinson. (The actor first broke hearts as the martyred Cedric Diggory in the Harry Potter cycle.) Though her filmmaking can be shaky the director Catherine Hardwicke has an eye for pretty young things and a feel for the private worlds that younger people make for themselves. But she’s working in shackles here. In her best movie “Lords of Dogtown ” about the birth of the modern skateboard movement a teenage boy sneaks out at night by slaloming off a roof while holding a surfboard. It’s a blissful declaration of freedom including freedom from the big parental no." the moody darkly brooding vampire who catches Bella’s eye and then her heart she becomes the girl worth fighting for a battle that as in the book involves not just malignant forces but also ravenous appetite. Like all vampire stories “Twilight” is about repressed desire and untamed hunger and the possibility of blood the blood that flows from violently pierced necks and that from John Polidori’s 1819 short novel “The Vampyre” to Alan Ball’s new HBO series “True Blood ” represents ravishment of a more graphic kind. This is the ravishment that in its pantomime of seduction and surrender transforms innocence — like that of Bram Stoker’s sacrificial virgin Lucy in “Dracula” — into “voluptuous wantonness.”" who has moved to Forks to live with her father (Billy Burke) he glowers at her threateningly his hands clenching into fists. Bella is mystified and you might be too if Melissa Rosenberg’s screenplay didn’t turn up the volume as the teenagers grow closer and Edward hints at his true nature. “What if I’m the bad guy?” he asks. (Cue the shrieking virgins.) “I still don’t know if I can control myself ” he later confesses as someone’s guitar gently weeps. A self-described monster he has all kinds of cool superhuman powers (running leaping mind-reading) but nothing compares to how he masters his universe: he keeps his fangs in his mouth." 
6682
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/21/movies/21thin.html
the plot must plod through a confetti storm of obstacles — religion ethnicity overbearing mothers — all of which are overcome in dewy unsmudged close-up. This isn’t a movie it’s an alternative-lifestyles campaign for Maybelline." Los Angeles and Toronto." that was just two weeks ago) they were playing would-be lovers in “The World Unseen.” Now they’re back to continue making eyes at each other in “I Can’t Think Straight ” yet another weightless confection from the writer and director Shamim Sarif." based on the novel by Ms. Sarif; director of photography Aseem Bajaj; edited by David Martin; music by Raiomond Mirza; production designer Katie Lee Carter; produced by Hanan Kattan; released by Regent Releasing and Here Films. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." Sheetal Sheth (Leyla) Antonia Frering (Reema) Dalip Tahil (Omar) and Nina Wadia (Housekeeper)." a spoiled Jordanian who has bailed on three previous suitors and is about to be married to fiancé No. 4. But as Tala’s wealthy family plans a lavish Christian wedding in Amman the bride-to-be is dallying in England with Leyla (Ms. Sheth) a coy Indian Muslim who writes flowery fiction and has difficulty keeping a boyfriend. Fortunately a succession of glowing Hallmark moments on polo field and tennis court lie in wait to nudge the ladies toward sexual reorientation." 
6683
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/21/movies/21lake.html
weakling son with a chip on his shoulder Mr. Garity gives a furtive sidelong performance that lends Billy as much plausibility as the screenplay allows. Keith Carradine does the best he can with the phoniest character Roy a guitar-playing onetime roustabout who runs the local gas station and gazes longingly at an indifferent Maggie. Mr. Ford’s Clayton is the saddest character: a suspicious damaged child whose trust in the adult world has been prematurely shattered." Robert Gantz; edited by Jeffrey Wolf; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer David Crank; produced by Allison Sarofim Donna L. Bascom and Mike S. Ryan; released by Screen Media Films. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." Troy Garity (Billy) Rebecca Romijn (Jennifer) David Matthews (Red) Keith Carradine (Roy) Colin Ford (Clayton) Barry Corbin (George) and Drea De Matteo (Hope)." grown-up wastrel son Billy (Troy Garity) who has been playing in a rock band in Memphis returns unexpectedly and drags along a mysterious boy named Clayton (Colin Ford) Maggie takes them in without any fuss; questions and explanations are saved for later. Under her steady watchful care hearty meals are served and the chaos of the world seems safely removed. As the camera surveys this austere country life you prepare for a family drama that explores the possibility of restoring the luster to tarnished American dreams." “Lake City” feels like a movie whose story was slapped together during filming. Its three phases — Southern pastorale Sudsville and Kablooie — don’t really connect." he is being tortured to reveal the whereabouts of Hope (Drea De Matteo) Clayton’s mother who has presumably run off with the drugs. Hope belatedly and briefly appears when she storms into Maggie’s house to claim Clayton. Then she is gone. But the avenging furies are not far behind." the details are so cluttered that any sense of catharsis is lost. Billy and Clayton who may or may not be Billy’s son play out their own tortured drama of paternity and denial." Maggie is a self-sufficient farmer living alone in rural Virginia who contemplates selling her homestead. The resolute set of her jaw and her flinty blue eyes not to mention her comfortable old house with its lived-in furniture evoke an inviolable solidity. At first the movie with its richly saturated palette seems to offer a sober yet lyrical portrait of contemporary Americana distilled in the figure of an independent woman of a certain age holding her head high." as armed drug dealers one played by the rocker Dave Matthews show up in search of a missing stash. In a climactic sequence that suggests “No Country for Old Men”  filtered through “North by Northwest” and “Witness ” Maggie Billy and Clayton flee for their lives into a cornfield." but for longtime moviegoers the name Sissy Spacek over a movie title promises that the film will have a core of integrity at least in the scenes in which she appears. And when Ms. Spacek speaks her clichéd lines in the mediocre screenplay of “Lake City ” a movie that has delusions of high seriousness her plain-spoken delivery lends them a resonance that is not in the written words." 
6684
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/21/movies/21bolt.html
such knowing insidery humor is hardly limited to self-conscious HBO shows like “Entourage” or “Curb Your Enthusiasm.” Kids’ stuff like “Hannah Montana” and “iCarly” plays the same trompe l’oeil tricks in a more wholesome context feeding young viewers the illusion that they can see through the clouds of hype and cynicism that make up more and more of the cultural air they breathe." ” in other words is a real movie — not a great one perhaps but a more organic and thought-out piece of work than the usual animated hodgepodge that lures antsy children and their dutiful parents into the multiplexes. It has its sentimental strains but it doesn’t push them too hard or resort to the crude pandering humor of say the “Shrek” franchise. Like its hero after he wakes up from his Hollywood dream life it’s friendly smart and eager to please. Cat people need not worry — hamster fans will be in heaven but that’s another story — since there is enough sly predatory feline humor to keep the thing from going entirely to the dogs." a genuine sense of fun that is expressed above all through obsessive attention to craft. The movie has three sets of talking pigeons each group embodying a regional stereotype and while I found the dese-dem-dose New York birds amusing and their aspiring-screenwriter Los Angeles counterparts downright hilarious it was the uncanny bobbing and twisting movements of the birds’ heads and the shuffle of their little pigeon feet that raised the conceit from clever to sublime." ” “Finding Nemo” and “Ratatouille ” it does manage to be frisky funny and inventive enough to engage the attention of grown-ups as well as children. Perhaps some of the show-biz jokes will sail over the heads of very young viewers who won’t understand why Penny’s unctuous agent keeps talking about sticking pins in things (I’m not sure I did) or what that mean lady from the network is so angry about." that is in which the hero a talking dog voiced by the real-life movie star John Travolta encounters wise-guy pigeons a cynical cat (Susie Essman) and a worshipful geeky hamster named Rhino (Mark Walton)." Doug Bennett; art director Paul Felix; produced by Clark Spencer; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." Bolt in the series that shares his name and the movie’s has played a genetically altered fearless supercanine who every week must rescue his owner a girl named Penny (Miley Cyrus of “Hannah Montana” fame) from the clutches of a dastardly villain (Malcolm McDowell)." Bolt is a cute enough little fellow with a winning personality and a nice voice but his physical gestures and facial expressions turn him into a memorable irresistible character. The 3-D version of the movie which will be shown in some theaters is less devoted to the kind of big effects that throw you back in your seat than to a more thorough and understated expansion of cinematic possibilities." “Bolt ” directed by Byron Howard and Chris Williams from a script by Mr. Williams and Dan Fogelman explores an existential predicament that it also shares. It is at once a knowing satirical sendup of the Hollywood fame-and-fantasy machinery and a sleek expensive product of the Disney-Pixar industrial complex." Miley Cyrus (Penny) Susie Essman (Mittens) Mark Walton (Rhino) Malcolm McDowell (Dr. Calico) James Lipton (the Director) and Greg Germann (the Agent)." and a climactic scene of danger may be too intense for small children." the story shows some signs of repurposing and committee work. Bolt’s situation is a bit like Buzz Lightyear’s in “Toy Story” — he must learn that what he thinks of as his true identity is an artifact of make-believe — and a lot like Lightning McQueen’s in “Cars.” His circular journey of exile and return during which he acquires a new self that is a better version of the old one resembles those of Nemo Wall-E and quite a few of the Disney princess heroines of old. And as is Disney custom Bolt is accompanied and often upstaged by a goofy chatterbox sidekick the ridiculous Rhino who rarely leaves his plexiglass exercise sphere." ” Bolt accepts the reality of his Jerry Bruckheimer-like habitat of chases explosions and special effects because he has never known anything else. Once outside he is perplexed to discover that he is after all an ordinary dog." 
6685
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/21/movies/21betr.html
sometimes tragic chronicle emerges in “The Betrayal ” but the film is driven less by chronology or plot than by the expressive counterpoint of words music and images. Ms. Kuras making her debut as a director has had a long and distinguished career as a cinematographer (her credits range from Tom Kalin’s “Swoon” to Michel Gondry’s “Be Kind Rewind”) and while “The Betrayal” is in some respects a memoir it is also a work of visual art. The collaboration of the co-directors seems to consist precisely of the synthesis between his memories and her eye." and the feelings they evoke with a patience and tact that sometimes feels a little too detached. But their purpose finally is not to traffic either in despair or easy uplift but rather to write a film essay that takes account of pain resilience and the sheer strangeness of recent history." and one of the most remarkable aspects of “The Betrayal” is a narrative span rare in documentaries." but its roughness is entirely consistent with the way the filmmakers understand the traumatic experiences of displacement loss and deprivation. The title which at first seems straightforwardly to refer to the American government’s abandonment of its Laotian proxies takes on deeper sometimes contradictory meanings as “The Betrayal” (in Lao “Nerakhoom”) unfolds. It refers to the actions of Mr. Phrasavath’s father and also more obliquely to the loss of cohesion and identity suffered by exiled Laotians as their children drift into violence and materialism." who is credited as Ms. Kuras’s co-director and who provides on-camera and voice-over narration. The son of a Laotian military officer who was part of the American-backed government Mr. Phrasavath and his family fled their homeland not long after the Communist Pathet Lao insurgents came to power in 1975. After Mr. Phrasavath’s father disappeared into a re-education camp —  for a “seminar ” in the chilling local euphemism — Mr. Phrasavath his mother and most of his sisters and brothers made their way to Thailand and then to the United States where they were deposited in a tough gang-ridden section of Brooklyn." giving the film a haunting sense of discontinuity and intensifying the surprise of its unexpected turns. Mr. Phrasavath and his mother seem to age before our eyes as he grows from a sullen adolescent with big 1980s hair into a sober and contemplative middle-aged man and she is pared down by time into a tough weary matriarch." Ms. Kuras; edited by Mr. Phrasavath; music by Howard Shore; produced by Ms. Kuras and Flora Fernandez-Marengo; released by Cinema Guild. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. In English and Lao with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." ” a documentary by Ellen Kuras could hardly be more enormous: war revolution the abandonment  of a nation and the scattering of its citizens. But the film though it includes old news clips of the war in Laos and of American presidents discussing that country’s fate is distinguished by an intimate mood and a lyrical tone. It is quiet contemplative and impressionistic which makes the story it has to tell all the more powerful." 
6686
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/19/movies/19harv.html
or so it seemed shifted and one player after another either rose to the occasion or stumbled with agonizing frailty. Gods became men as the ball was lost and found and one improbable pass after another was completed. In front of the increasingly raucous packed stadium each play became an epic battle in miniature with every second stretching into an eternity. As in film time in football doesn’t tick it races and oozes a fact that Mr. Rafferty working as his own editor and using the simplest visual material  talking-head interviews and game footage  exploits for a narrative that pulses with the artful exciting beats of a thriller." heart-skipping minute of this showdown. (The schools like some others honor their football rivalry with vainglorious capitalization calling each matchup The Game.) On Nov. 23 1968 the undefeated Yale team and its two glittering stars  the quarterback Brian Dowling and the running back Calvin Hill  went helmet to helmet against its longtime rival Harvard also undefeated.  Mr. Dowling a legendary figure whom grown men still call god (and the inspiration for Garry Trudeau’s Doonesbury character B. D.) had not lost a game he started since the sixth grade a record that well into the fourth quarter with Yale leading by 16 points seemed safe." even though you know how the story ends from the start. (Take another look at the coyly cleverly enigmatic title borrowed from the famous headline in The Harvard Crimson.) One reason for the excitement is the game of course which remains a nail-biter despite the visual quality of the footage which is so unadorned and so humble  and almost entirely in long shot  it looks like a dispatch from a foreign land. And in some ways it was: Football fans still wore raccoon coats to games and the women in the stands cheering for Yale could not attend the college. The same month Yale announced it was (finally) opening that door." directed and edited by Kevin Rafferty; director of photography Mr. Rafferty; released by Kino International. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas West Village. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes. This film is not rated." at least in close-up. “Harvard Beats Yale 29-29” is very much about men triumphant regretful defiant sentimental touchingly vulnerable men who are made all the more poignant with each image of them as young players. For some the game was and remains the greatest moment of their lives  even better than sex one volunteers prompting Mr. Rafferty to ask off-camera if the man had then been a virgin (no). Mr. Rafferty himself a  Harvard man films his subjects (Tommy Lee Jones a Harvard lineman included) with a lack of fuss in plain kitchens and cluttered offices. He lets them roam around their memories and for a time gives them back sweet youth." I suspect the year 1968 signifies upheaval revolution power to the people Vietnam and My Lai Paris in flames Martin and Bobby Nixon versus Humphrey. Another great rivalry played out that year in the form of a college football game. And while it seems absurd to include such a picayune event in the annals the filmmaker Kevin Rafferty makes the case for remembrance and for the art of the story in his preposterously entertaining documentary “Harvard Beats Yale 29-29 ” preposterous at least for those of us who routinely shun that pagan sacrament." 
6687
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/14/movies/14tale.html
as if any given film were plucked almost at random from dozens of other possibilities. The result in the case of “A Christmas Tale ” is a movie that is almost indecently satisfying and at the same time elusive at once intellectually lofty — marked by allusions to Emerson Shakespeare and Seamus Heaney as well as Nietzsche — and as earthy as the passionate provincial family that is its heart and cosmos and reason for being." ” for instance or his dysfunctional masterpiece “Kings and Queen.” But this frantically eventful movie has a plot only in the sense that a child has a fever. The logic and sequence of events is not an order imposed on experiential chaos but rather a pattern within that chaos itself a symptom and a sign of life." Jean-Paul Roussillon (Abel) Anne Consigny (Élizabeth) Mathieu Amalric (Henri) Melvil Poupaud (Ivan) Hippolyte Girardot (Claude) Emmanuelle Devos (Faunia) Chiara Mastroianni (Sylvia) Émile Berling (Paul) and Laurent Capelluto  (Simon)." Éric Gautier; edited by Laurence Briaud; music by Grégoire Hetzel; production designer Dan Bevan; produced by  Pascal Caucheteux; released by IFC Films. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes. This film is not rated." between who we think we are and who we appear to others to be —  is for Mr. Desplechin both a theme and a premise. His films are headlong ardent explorations of failure misunderstanding and emotional warfare which turn out to be roughly synonymous with nobility generosity and love. Everyone in his world is so complicated that it’s a wonder a single house family film or planet could contain more than one and yet  his characters  only exist they are only really themselves in groups in crowds in agonized and imperfect relation to one another." the death of a child the reunion of a big family just in time for the holidays — Mr. Desplechin lines up all the elements of a hokey domestic melodrama. And then he sends them flying with impish brio in every possible direction adding melody — from Cecil Taylor to Vivaldi from Irish jig to Francophone hip-hop — and whatever cinematic technique comes to hand. There are stretches of voice-over narration and moments when characters speak directly into the camera but these devices which might be ironical or distancing instead serve to heighten the sense of vigor and immediacy." since the characters singly in pairs or in clusters veer abruptly onto center stage. Ivan (Melvil Poupaud) the youngest sibling and his wife Sylvia (Chiara Mastroianni Ms. Deveuve’s daughter mischievously cast as her daughter-in-law) seem at first to be tangential to the main story lines which appear to involve the bitterness between Henri and Élizabeth and the specter of Junon’s illness. But of course no one plays a supporting role in his or her own story and so a triangle involving Sylvia Ivan and Ivan’s cousin Simon (Laurent Capelluto) temporarily obstructs our view of other matters." you might say — is once again Mathieu Amalric who has appeared in three of this director’s previous films (and who is also the latest James Bond villain). He plays Henri the black sheep of the Vuillard clan and Élizabeth’s mortal enemy. Alcoholic and impetuous Henri who arrives unexpectedly with his new lover Faunia (Emmanuelle Devos) jolts the rest of the family into spasms of pity resentment and half-admiring amazement at his sheer nerve." a small industrial city tucked away  in France’s northeastern corner includes Abel’s wife Junon (Catherine Deneuve) and three children Élizabeth Henri and Ivan and Élizabeth’s teenage son Paul (Émile Berling) who suffers from a mental disorder. Abel and Junon’s first child a boy named Joseph died of a rare form of leukemia in childhood and his death continues to haunt the family. This is less because of lingering grief —  though Abel in particular seems to carry the loss of his firstborn close to his heart — than because Junon has recently been diagnosed with the same illness that killed her son. Her only hope for survival is a bone marrow transplant and her children and grandchildren undergo tests to determine if one of them might be a suitable donor. There is a chance however that Junon’s body will reject the marrow meaning that every possible savior is also her potential killer." ” Nietzsche wrote “and ask in complete surprise and embarrassment ‘What just happened? ’ or even ‘Who are we really?’ ” “A Christmas Tale ” which follows the extended Vuillard family through a few days and several lifetimes’ worth of hectic emotional confusion induces a similar state of astonishment. Abel and Élizabeth are only two of a dozen vividly drawn painfully human characters all of them prone to self-analysis none of them especially blessed with self-understanding. After two and a half hours in their thrilling exhausting company the intimacy we feel with them is wired with bafflement and surprise. What just happened? Who are they really?" the mirthful patient patriarch in Arnaud Desplechin’s noisy cloying and altogether marvelous new film reads aloud from the opening pages of Nietzsche’s “On the Genealogy of Morals.” His audience is his oldest child Élizabeth (Anne Consigny) who has been complaining about the inexplicable sadness that perpetually afflicts her. (Early in the movie she offered the same complaint to her therapist.) As comfort and chastisement Abel recites a long passage about the futility of our desire for self-knowledge and our alienation from our own experience." 
6688
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/14/movies/14eden.html
Eileen Walsh (Breda Farrell) Padraic Delaney (Eoghan) Karl Shiels (Breffni Grehan) Lesley Conroy (Eilish Moore) and Sarah Greene (Imelda Egan)." elbowed aside by flashier fare. One welcome corrective to this trend is “Eden ” a picture so modest and minor-key that the emotional bruise it leaves may take days to develop." Owen McPolin; edited by Gareth Young; music by Stephen Rennicks and Hugh Drumm; production designer John Hand; produced by David Collins; released by Liberation Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes. This film is not rated." “Eden” circles the rocky marriage of Billy (Aidan Kelly heartbreaking) and Breda (Eileen Walsh) a 10-year union that has produced two children and a number of dissatisfactions. As their anniversary celebration looms Billy — a balding bored phone company worker — grasps at youth in the form of the fiery Imelda (Sarah Greene) while Breda would just really like to have sex again preferably some time this century." “Eden” takes as its subject the common wounds of the neglected marriage and their all-too-familiar field dressings: the diet and haircut for her the itchy feet and alcoholic stupor for him. Less gritty than Ken Loach and less quirky than Mike Leigh the director Declan  Recks (working from a script by Eugene O’Brien adapting his stage play) sacrifices novelty for emotional honesty and his actors respond." 
6689
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/14/movies/14duke.html
who play Danny DePasquale and George Zucco the caper’s prime movers are obviously too young for their roles. Mr. Davi an actor best known for his villainous turns in “License to Kill” and “Die Hard ” produced and directed from a screenplay he wrote with James Andronica." Michael Goi; edited by James Cypherd; music by Nic. tenBroek; production designer Derek Hughes; released by Cavu Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. WITH: Robert Davi (Danny DePasquale) Chazz Palminteri (George Zucco) Peter Bogdanovich (Lou Fiola) Frank D’Amico (Armond Kaputo) Miriam Margolyes (Aunt Vee) Elya Baskin (Murph Sinitsky) and Bruce Weitz (Toulio)." Italian-American division.  As this shambling cornball heist comedy  — in which the members of a one-hit-wonder vocal group from the early ’60s conspire in 2007 to rob the gold from the safe in a dental laboratory —  plods along in its sloppy joshing way it tastes like pasta sauce that has sat on the shelf long after the expiration date on the can." Fellini-size women; another involves Danny’s hostility to dentists after his ex-wife’s new partner fixes his son’s teeth for nothing. “The Dukes” imagines that its bumbling thieves are bighearted down-to-earth guys. Maybe so but they’re also self-deluded fools." wildly overacting). Filling out the group are Armond (Frank D’Amico) an obese comedian and Murph (Elya Baskin) a former airline mechanic whose pot habit was blamed for a runway mishap. A miscast Peter Bogdanovich is their longtime manager who finds them humiliating work dressing as giant tomatoes in a TV commercial for salsa." 
6690
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/14/movies/14abou.html
Ellie immediately bakes some hash-laced cookies but Kate finds them and throws them away." set in Ireland at Christmastime takes its title from the 1941 Burton Lane-Ralph Freed standard that begins “I like New York in June.”  Heard over the opening credits in a mediocre bowdlerized version by Bobby Darin and repeated incessantly it’s the favorite ditty of Georgia Platts (Ms. Redgrave) a former showgirl who wears a turban and gives imperious directions on how to fix the martinis to which she is avidly addicted." a residential home who have not vacated the premises for the Christmas holidays.  While Kate (Orla Brady) the strict owner is away it is up to her younger sister Ellie (Hayley Atwell) a wild Irish rose to keep order.  The four are holy terrors whose bad behavior has driven away so many lodgers that Woodlands’ very existence is threatened. The achievement of peace and harmony depends on the success of a proposed Christmas dinner that becomes a modest British answer to “Babette’s Feast.”" ” directed by Anthony Byrne from Jean Pasley’s screen adaptation of a short story by Maeve Binchy belongs to the sentimental genre of post-Terence Rattigan white-glove British dramas like “Mrs. Palfrey at the Claremont” and “Ladies in Lavender.” If those two predecessors have a little more substance than “How About You ” all three appeal to the delicate  palates  of an audience that craves the movie equivalent of tea and biscuits:  stiff upper lips conceal hearts of gold and all psychological conflicts are resolved with tearful confessions of vulnerability." with its references to Kennedy and “a Bernstein tune ” you are misled into thinking the movie is a period piece set in the 1960s. But  if there is just enough modern technology to set the movie’s time as now on a deeper level the era it depicts is really then." embittered elders  into a happy family." Joss Ackland Brenda Fricker and Imelda Staunton chew up the scenery you may be half-convinced that such miracles can occur. When portrayed by fine actors Ebenezer Scrooge can metamorphose into Bob Cratchit and the Wicked Witch of the West into Glinda  the Good Witch." which eventually becomes a jolly singalong in an Irish pub also helps thaw the frozen souls of Donald Vanston (Mr. Ackland) a widower and retired judge who demands his breakfast be served at 5:30 two and a half hours ahead of schedule; and Heather and Hazel Nightingale (Ms. Fricker and Ms. Staunton) bickering spinster sisters who are continually at each other’s throats as they recycle old family grievances." Brenda Fricker (Heather Nightingale) Imelda Staunton (Hazel Nightingale) Hayley Atwell (Ellie Harris) Joss Ackland (Donald Vanston) and Orla Brady (Kate Harris)." based on the short story “The Hardcore” by Maeve Binchy; director of photography Des Whelan; music by Niall Byrne; production designer Tom McCullough; produced by Noel Pearson and Sarah Radclyffe; released by Strand Releasing. At the Paris Theater 4 West 58th Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." which has little stomach for barbarity this genre is a godsend because it offers the consolations of civilized conversation in complete sentences and cultural name-dropping. The retired judge a recovering alcoholic whose greatest regret is not having sobered up while he was married plays Satie on the piano and hums a theme from “Die Fledermaus.”" 
6691
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/14/movies/14wiza.html
” but her views on Pottermania are so beyond the movie’s scope and so at odds with its generally light tone that she adds nothing to a project that could have used some more thought to go with its laughs." though in contrast to super-fans like Ms. Lawver their commitment to Potterville largely seems a matter of opportunism rather than devotion. Frankly I was more interested in the girls who follow wizard rock." one Mr. Koury elides as he meanders from Potter concert to Potter panel and drops in to listen to an academic Henry Jenkins pontificate on fan culture. Mr. Jenkins has a way with words yet lacks the spooky intensity of another authority who before the title appears warns of the threat J. K. Rowling’s creation poses to children: “It draws them into darker powers and into something that ultimately will destroy society.”" including the righteousness of the Potter true believer Heather Lawver who in 2001 at 16 took on Warner Brothers (which makes the films) for a fan’s right to be not just a consumer of mass culture but also a participant in it." the producer of a video titled “Harry Potter: Witchcraft Repackaged; Making Evil Look Innocent.” Ms. Matrisciana is described on her Web site (carylmatrisciana.com/x2/) as a “well-known expert on ancient and modern world religions contemporary cults paganism and the occult.” (You can also find DVDs about yoga and Armageddon on the site along with a rant that associates Barack Obama with Hitler.)" ” his amusing if unfocused documentary peek at some of the more engaged fans (and opportunists) circulating in the Harry Potter world. The problem is that he has actually latched onto so many subjects in this 79-minute movie — fandom as an act of creation intellectual property rights in the Internet age conglomerate bullying — that he can’t get a real grasp on any of them." 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 19 minutes. This film is not rated." a founder of the popular fan site The Daily Prophet (dprophet.com) is an engaging presence though it’s unclear what she has to do with the movie’s principal interest: the geeky guys and two adorable tykes who performing in so-called wizard rock bands like Harry and the Potters the Hungarian Horntails and (my favorite) Draco and the Malfoys (“My dad is rich and your dad is dead”) thrash and warble noisily and sometimes pretty comically about all things Harry Potter. (“You messed up in potions yesterday but everyone still thinks you’re really great except Snape ” the Malfoys taunt Harry elsewhere. “ ’Cause we see you for what you really are. ... And it’s O.K. It’s really great. Because I hate you. And so does Snape.”)" 
6692
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/14/movies/14war.html
S. J. Staniski; edited by Nels Bangerter; produced by Mr. Chrobog and Afshin Molavi; released by Reel U Films. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." ” a documentary about the hip-hop artist Emmanuel Jal is a bit ragged and repetitive but certainly this young man’s life is amazing proof that one person really can make a difference." who as a youngster in southern Sudan in the 1980s spent time as a child soldier in that country’s prolonged civil war that one person was Emma McCune a British relief worker who was determined to rescue him and other children from their dire situation. She smuggled him into Kenya and though she died in a car crash shortly after the act was enough to set him on a very different path: success as a recording artist in Africa and the West." Mr. Jal is now determined to “pass it on ” as they say by helping other African children. Is this film a bit self-promotional? Sure but quietly stirring nonetheless." 
6693
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/14/movies/14trut.html
produced and directed by Steve Kroschel; directors of photography William Bacon III and Mario Benassi; edited by Carey Komadina; music by Francesca Dego and Francesca Leonardi; released by Cinema Libre Studio. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. This film is not rated." a strict dietary regimen of organic produce and fresh juice proposed as the miracle cure for a number of chronic diseases by the German doctor Max Gerson. Discredited by the medical establishment but passionately defended by its followers who claim it can cure cancer the Gerson therapy is based on fundamental principles  eschew meat and processed foods  that are scarcely provocative in this age of slow-food chic." a bright-eyed home-schooled 15-year-old named Garrett to investigate the evils of the medical-industrial complex. Thus ensue lectures on genetically modified foods demonstrations of toxic fumes leaking from mercury-laced fillings and paeans to the benefit of frequent coffee enemas." ” a documentary about contemporary health hazards and alternative treatments has been made notes the filmmaker Steve Kroschel in the hopes of appealing to children which may explain why his voice-over strikes the sort of cloying condescending sing-song tone that would mollify an incontinent toddler and drive everyone else up the wall." 
6694
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/14/movies/14rbeau.html
Angela Winkler (Madame) Maximilian Schell (Kogi) Birol Ünel (Mister Gold) Mona Glass (Secretary) and Marina Weiss (Maid)." his erotic excitement visibly growing natters incessantly to his near-comatose companions — can be creepily mesmerizing the whisper of necrophilia is impossible to ignore. And when an evening with what the establishment’s forbidding Madame (Angela Winkler) incomprehensibly calls “a trainee” ends in disaster that whisper becomes a roar that the film’s feeble digression into thriller territory is unable to mute." a wealthy sexagenarian haunted by the long-ago  deaths of his wife and daughter. His depression lifts when a friend (Mr. Schell) suggests a visit to a bizarre brothel where lonely old men can snuggle up to beautiful drugged young virgins and grope them at will. When the slumbering girls awake they conveniently remember nothing which is probably just as well." ” a clammy meditation on sex death and the endless fascination of unclothed innocence." its clientele probably resembled the target audience for this movie." Ciro Cappellari; edited by Charlie Lézin; music by Nikolaus Glowna and Siggi Mueller; production designer Peter Weber; produced by  Vadim Glowna and Raymond Tarabay; released by First Run Features. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. In German with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6695
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/14/movies/14quan.html
rakish facade and since Mr. Craig took over the franchise two years ago the character has shown a temperament at once rougher and more soulful than in previous incarnations. The violence in his first outing “Casino Royale ” was notably intense and while “Quantum of Solace” is not quite as brutal the mood is if anything even more grim and downcast." I’d say thanks to a lizardy turn from the great French actor Mathieu Amalric who plays Dominic Greene a ruthless economic predator disguised as an ecological do-gooder. The supporting cast is studded with equally excellent performers including Jeffrey Wright and Giancarlo Giannini both reprising their roles in “Casino Royale.”" Haiti Austria and Italy are featured or impersonated to perfectly nice touristic effect. Gizmos? A bit disappointing to tell the truth. Technological advances in the real world may not quite have outpaced those in the Bond universe but so many movies these days show off their global video surveillance set-ups and advanced smart-phone applications that it’s hard for this one to distinguish itself." as usual — not counting Judi Dench returning as the brisk and impatient M — one (Gemma Arterton) a doomed casual plaything the other a more serious dramatic foil and potential romantic interest. That one called Camille is played by Olga Kurylenko whose specialty seems to be appearing in action pictures as the pouty sexy sidekick of a brooding vengeful hero. Not only Daniel Craig’s Bond but also Mark Wahlberg’s Max Payne and Timothy Olyphant’s Hitman." but he shares with them the astonishing ability to resist indeed to ignore Ms. Kurylenko’s physical charms." Olga Kurylenko (Camille) Mathieu Amalric (Dominic Greene) Judi Dench (M) Giancarlo Giannini (Mathis) Gemma Arterton (Agent Fields) Jeffrey Wright (Felix Leiter) Jesper Christensen (Mr. White) Anatole Taubman (Elvis) Rory Kinnear (Tanner) and Joaquín Cosio (General Medrano)." ” directed by Marc Forster and opening Friday is the 22nd official installment of the series in 46 years — with a nifty theory or an elaborate sociocultural hermeneutic agenda but the most important thing to have on hand is a checklist. It’s all well and good to reflect upon the ways 007 the Harry Potter of British intelligence has evolved over time through changes in casting geopolitics sexual mores and styles of dress." ” a phrase never uttered in the course of this film (though it has something to do with Greene’s diabolical scheme itself never fully explained) means something like a measure of comfort. Perhaps that describes what Bond is looking for or maybe it is what this kind of entertainment tries to provide a fretful audience. If so I prefer mine with a dash of mischief." along with the possibility that she had betrayed him before dying provides an obvious psychological explanation for his somber demeanor in “Quantum.” But while the exploration of Bond’s psychology makes him arguably at least a deeper subtler character — and there is certainly impressive depth and subtlety in Mr. Craig’s wounded whispery menace — it also makes him harder to distinguish from every other grieving seething avenger at the multiplex." but the same can hardly be said of James Bond Her Majesty’s suave cynical cold war paladin. His wit was part of his — of our — arsenal and he countered the totalitarian humorlessness of his foes with a wink and a bon mot." and anyway when did James Bond ever let work get in the way of sex? No what gets in the way is emotion. 007’s grief and rage the source of his connection to Camille are forces more powerful than either duty or libido." Robert Wade and Paul Haggis based on characters created by Ian Fleming; director of photography Roberto Schaefer; edited by Matt Chessé and Richard Pearson; music by David Arnold; production designer Dennis Gassner; produced by Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." I suppose the deeper questions bubble up. Is revenge the only possible motive for large-scale movie heroism these days? Does every hero whether Batman or Jason Bourne need to be so sad?" we need to assess the action the villain the gadgets the babes and the other standard features." high-end cocktails and fast cars — only if there are some pseudoserious bad feelings attached? The Sean Connery James Bond movies of the 1960s were smooth cosmopolitan comedies which in the Roger Moore era sometimes ascended to the level of farce. With Mr. Craig James Bond reveals himself to be — sigh — a tragic figure." performed by Jack White and Alicia Keys (an intriguing duo on paper if nowhere else) is an abysmal cacophony of incompatible musical idioms and the title sequence over which those idioms do squalling battle is similarly disharmonious: conceptually clever and visually grating. The first chase picking up exactly where the 2006  “Casino Royale” left off is speedy and thrilling but the other action set-pieces are a decidedly mixed bag with a few crisp footraces some semi-coherent punch-outs and a dreadful boat pileup that brings back painful memories of the invisible car Pierce Brosnan tooled around in a few movies ago." 
6696
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/12/movies/12slum.html
Ayush Mahesh Khedekar (Youngest Jamal) Freida Pinto (Latika) Rubina Ali (Youngest Latika) Madhur Mittal (Salim) Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail (Youngest Salim) Sanchita Choudhary (Jamal’s Mother) Anil Kapoor (Prem) and Irrfan Khan (Police Inspector)." who first stormed the British movie scene in the mid-1990s with flashy entertainments like “Shallow Grave” and “Trainspotting ”  has a flair for the outré. Few other directors could turn a heroin addict rummaging inside a rank toilet bowl into a surrealistic underwater reverie as he does in “Trainspotting ” and fewer still could do so while holding onto the character’s basic humanity. The addict played by Ewan McGregor emerges from his repulsive splish-splashing with a near-beatific smile (having successfully retrieved some pills) a terrible if darkly funny image that turns out to have been representative not just of Mr. Boyle’s bent humor but also of his worldview: better to swim than to sink." what gives me reluctant pause about this bright cheery hard-to-resist movie is that its joyfulness feels more like a filmmaker’s calculation than an honest cry from the heart about the human spirit (or better yet a moral tale). In the past Mr. Boyle has managed to wring giggles out of murder (“Shallow Grave”) and addiction (“Trainspotting”) and invest even the apocalypse with a certain joie de vivre (the excellent zombie flick “28 Days Later”). He’s a blithely glib entertainer who can dazzle you with technique and on occasion blindside you with emotion as he does in his underrated children’s movie “Millions.” He plucked my heartstrings in “Slumdog Millionaire” with well-practiced dexterity coaxing laughter and sobs out of each sweet sour and false note." gorgeous rush of color sound and motion “Slumdog Millionaire ” the latest from the British shape-shifter Danny Boyle doesn’t travel through the lower depths it giddily bounces from one horror to the next. A modern fairy tale about a pauper angling to become a prince this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai India where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel or could if the film weren’t already hurtling through another picturesque gutter." based on the novel “Q & A” by Vikas Swarup; director of photography Anthony Dod Mantle; edited by Chris Dickens; music by A. R. Rahman; production designer Mark Digby; produced by Christian Colson; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 2 hours." uncaring world along with another new orphan a shy beauty named Latika (Rubina Ali plays the child Freida Pinto the teenager) the three children make their way from one refuge to another before falling prey to a villain whose exploitation pushes the story to the edge of the unspeakable. Although there’s something undeniably fascinating or at least watchable about this ghastly interlude — the young actors are very appealing and sympathetic and the images are invariably pleasing even when they shouldn’t be — it’s  unsettling to watch these young characters and by extension the young nonprofessionals playing them enact such a pantomime. It doesn’t help even if you remember that Jamal makes it out alive long enough to have his 15 televised minutes." or because Mr. Boyle leans toward the sanguine this proves to be one of the most upbeat stories about living in hell imaginable. It’s a life that begins in a vast vibrant sun-soaked jampacked ghetto a kaleidoscopic city of flimsy shacks and struggling humanity and takes an abrupt cruel turn when Jamal (Ayush Mahesh Khedekar) then an exuberant 7 and his cagier brother Salim (Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail) witness the murder of their mother (Sanchita Choudhary) by marauding fanatics armed with anti-Muslim epithets and clubs." in both film and digital video “Slumdog Millionaire” makes for a better viewing experience than it does for a reflective one. It’s an undeniably attractive package a seamless mixture of thrills and tears armchair tourism (the Taj Mahal makes a guest appearance during a sprightly interlude) and crackerjack professionalism. Both the reliably great Irrfan Khan (“A Mighty Heart”) as a sadistic detective and the Bollywood star Anil Kapoor as the preening game-show host run circles around the young Mr. Patel an agreeable enough if vague centerpiece to all this coordinated insistently happy chaos." who earns a living as a chai-wallah serving fragrant tea to call-center workers in Mumbai and who after a series of alternating exhilarating and unnerving adventures has landed in the hot seat on the television game show “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire.” Yet while the story opens with Jamal on the verge of grabbing the big prize Simon Beaufoy’s cleverly kinked screenplay adapted from a novel by Vikas Swarup embraces a fluid view of time and space effortlessly shuttling between the young contestant’s past and his present his childhood spaces and grown-up times. Here narrative doesn’t begin and end: it flows and eddies — just like life." 
6697
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07mode.html
with the slogan “taste the beast ” as a healthy substitute for a drug high. Wheeler appears in costume at school assemblies as the hairy corporate mascot Minotaur Man while Danny half-heartedly delivers the product’s official good-health spiel to blank-faced students." the film’s mommy surrogates including Beth and Gayle will have nothing to do with them." ” Ronnie (Bobb’e J. Thompson) has an even dirtier mind than his mentor and suggests a foul-mouthed Gary Coleman. Danny’s little brother Augie (Christopher Mintz-Plasse) is a teenage über-geek cut from the same cloth as Fogell a k a McLovin’ Mr. Mintz-Plasse’s character in “Superbad.” He lives in the fantasy kingdom of Laire an elaborate dungeons-and-dragons-like live-action role-playing game whose players dress up as knights damsels and wizards in the Middle Ages — a world a teenage misfit can get lost in." ” the newest entry in the increasingly worn-out “boys will be babies until they are forced to grow up” school of arrested-development comedies. But he might as well have. Directed by David Wain (“Wet Hot American Summer”) it follows the silly misadventures of two flailing Peter Pans who are forced to do community service to avoid jail time." Paul Rudd (Danny) Christopher Mintz-Plasse (Augie) Bobb’e J. Thompson (Ronnie) Elizabeth Banks (Beth) Jane Lynch (Sweeny) and Ken Jeong (King Argotron)." Laire is taken seriously enough to be the vehicle for both Augie’s and Danny’s redemption once Danny enters the game. The movie would have been much funnier not to mention genuinely subversive had it laid waste to both the pretensions of Sturdy Wings and the fantasies of Laire. But for the crowd-pleasing finale in which the players don Kiss makeup for a final battle “Role Models” pours sugar and cream on everything and turns it to mush." but Danny who suspects the drink may be poisonous loathes it. He vents his discontent to his girlfriend Beth (Elizabeth Banks) a successful lawyer who becomes so fed up with his bellyaching that she dumps him. After an especially dismal presentation in which Danny veers off script and disparages Minotaur he goes ballistic in a traffic dispute that destroys the company truck; both he and Wheeler receive 30-day jail sentences. Beth negotiates a compromise: they can avoid jail with 150 hours of community service." who won’t shut up about her addiction and recovery inspires a zany performance from Ms. Lynch that transcends her turn as Mr. Rudd’s ever-lustful boss in “The 40-Year-Old Virgin.” With the ferocity of a drill instructor and the boundless confidence of a self-help guru who combines psychobabble clichés with embarrassingly explicit confessions Ms. Lynch’s Gayle redeems the movie from utter banality." Wheeler (Seann William Scott) and Danny (Paul Rudd) are temperamental opposites. Wheeler is the same drooling skirt chaser with the same idiotic grin that Mr. Scott played in the “American Pie” movies. Danny is a whining misanthropic underachiever who realizes he is in an occupational rut but is too depressed to do anything about it." founded by Gayle Sweeny (Jane Lynch) a gung-ho do-gooder and former cocaine addict who is so full of herself she comes across as a fire-breathing zealot. (Imagine a demented Suze Orman with heavy personal baggage.)" Mr. Wain Ken Marino and Timothy Dowling based on a story by Mr. Dowling and William Blake Herron; director of photography Russ T. Alsobrook; edited by Eric Kissack; music by Craig Wedren; production designer Stephen Lineweaver; produced by Mary Parent Scott Stuber and Luke Greenfield; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." 
6698
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07otto.html
bratty intermittently hilarious and generally haphazard low-budget movies since the early 1990s most of which have a sarcastic political edge and all of which feature really hot guys getting it on with pornographic gusto." James Carman; edited by Jörn Hartmann; art director Stefan Dickfeld; produced by Jürgen Brüning Mr. LaBruce Mr. Hartmann Jennifer Jonas and Michael Huber; released by Strand Releasing. In Manhattan at the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated." a melancholy young zombie who shuffles about in a lovesick stupor. He is enlisted by a pretentious avant-garde filmmaker named Medea (Katharina Klewinghaus) to participate in her magnum opus a “dissertation on the undead” involving  revolutionary Marxism and  gay orgies." Marcel Schlutt (Fritz Fritze) Nicholas Fox Ricciardi (Young Man in Hooded Sweatshirt) Keith Boehm (Man in a Suit and Hat) Olivia Barth (Woman in a Black Burqa) Christophe Chemin (Maximilian) and Katharina Klewinghaus (Medea Yarn)." UP WITH DEAD PEOPLE" “Otto” is sexy and silly in just the right proportions a cult item with a real heart — albeit one that tends to get torn from the rib cage and munched on by naked men conversant in the philosophy of Herbert Marcuse." the underground and the indie scene his latest “Otto; Or Up With Dead People ” unfolds in and around the radical gay zombie culture of Berlin. Having developed a modicum of reason the living dead are wearily accepted in society at large despite the growing “plague” of homosexual undead whose twin tastes for cannibalism and sodomy lend Mr. LaBruce a characteristically irreverent means of riffing on AIDS and the fear of gay recruitment." 
6699
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07unse.html
” a trembling soap of racial oppression and lesbian longing three Indian women endure South African apartheid in the 1950s with strategies as diverse as their personalities." meaningful looks and overzealous law enforcement." “The World Unseen” never begins to tap the talent at its disposal. Prim and uninvolving the sputtering attraction between Amina and Miriam plays out as an opera of eyes: demure and downcast versus flirty and direct. Angry white policemen interrupt occasionally to push someone around but it’s difficult to care about characters drawn so thinly that they’re almost transparent." Amina steals kisses while Miriam fumbles for third gear and the soundtrack hyperventilates. Unfortunately only the South African scrubland is cooking." it’s all about defiance. Invariably attired in snazzy men’s wear she flouts the law by owning a cafe with the racially mixed Jacob (David Dennis) and encouraging mixed-race dining. For Miriam (Lisa Ray) complete subservience to her controlling husband Omar (Parvin Dabas) and two children is the way to go. Only the slinky  Farah (Natalie Becker) has found relief beneath the radar sleeping with Omar while Miriam scrubs." based on her novel; director of photography Mike Downie; edited by David Martin; music by Shigeru Umebayashi; production designer Tanya van Tonder; produced by Hanan Kattan; released by Regent Releasing and Here! Films. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." Sheetal Sheth (Amina) Parvin Dabas (Omar) David Dennis (Jacob) Grethe Fox (Madeleine Smith) Colin Moss (De Witt) and Natalie Becker (Farah)." 
6700
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07guit.html
Melody is  told she has inoperable throat cancer and is given two months to live; is unceremoniously fired from her office job; and is dumped by her stuffy boyfriend. Freed from responsibility knowing she won’t have to pay the bills she moves into a vacant loft with a Hudson River view and maxes out her credit cards stuffing the place with furniture." Isaach de Bankolé (Roscoe Wasz) and Paz de la Huerta (Cookie Clemente)." a  willowy actress whose beauty and bearing suggest a more delicate Angelina Jolie brings a measure of grace to “The Guitar ” an arty parable that suggests a New York bohemian variation on the odious “Bucket List.” As her unfortunately named character Melody Wilder slinks around a loft in Lower Manhattan in various states of undress she is a visually arresting wraith gazing into the void." Bobby Bukowski; edited by David Leonard; music by David Mansfield; production designer Marla Weinhoff; produced by Bob Jason Heyward Collins Ms. Redford Mr. Poe and Brad Zions; released by Lightning Media. At the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." despite her beauty and refinement apparently has no friends or family. The red guitar plugged into the banks of Marshall speakers symbolizes her transcendence  of a drab existence. Liberated to live in the moment she metamorphoses from a mousy beauty into a glamorous riot grrrl facing a fatal deadline." the young woman who delivers her pizzas and Roscoe (Isaach de Bankolé) the married man who lugs in the furniture. The film directed by Amy Redford from Amos Poe’s screenplay indirectly poses the question: what would you do in  Melody’s shoes? Most people I assume wouldn’t think that buying a Vera Wang mattress should be the first order of business." 
6701
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07soul.html
directed by Malcolm D. Lee was shot and the loss of Mr. Mac whose time in the pop-culture spotlight was tragically brief feels especially acute. In a stand-up routine immortalized in Spike Lee’s “Original Kings of Comedy ” Mr. Mac showed he could wring more laughs and more insight out of a single obscenity than anyone since the heyday of Lenny Bruce. And as the star of a network sitcom (“The Bernie Mac Show ” which ran on Fox from 2001 to 2006) he showed that he could be a warm and friendly family man without sacrificing his penchant for provocative truculent candor." but that’s pretty superfluous. Once these guys start yelling at each other all Mr. Lee really has to do is keep the camera running." Bernie Mac (Floyd Henderson) Sharon Leal (Cleo Whitfield) Sean Hayes (Danny Epstein) Adam Herschman (Phillip Newman) Affion Crockett (Lester) Jennifer Coolidge (Rosalee) John Legend (Marcus Hooks) and Isaac Hayes (himself)." which is riskier but still pretty good fun. Louis and Floyd long estranged are brought back together by the death of Marcus Hooks (John Legend) the Grammy-winning superstar for whom they sang backup in the old days. Their own careers were less glorious. Louis served a prison sentence and Floyd cycled through a bunch of marriages before being dumped in a retirement community by his nephew. Marcus’s passing offers them the chance for a comeback and also the opportunity to explore some road-movie clichés en route from Los Angeles to the Apollo Theater in Harlem." though and in the PG-13 movie “Oceans Eleven” and its sequels Mr. Mac had to curb his tongue. “Soul Men” not only allows him room to explore the nuances and inflections of profanity but it also pairs him with Samuel L. Jackson (as Louis Hinds Floyd’s onetime singing partner) certainly no slouch when it comes to wringing poetry out of the blue Anglo-Saxon linguistic heritage." though “Soul Men” is driven by the volatility of Louis and Floyd and by its savvy affectionate exploration of the history of R&B. The movie’s nostalgia for the old days of soul is playful and relaxed but — in contrast to say the pious and misguided “Dreamgirls” — its grasp of the relevant musical idioms is meticulous. The story is a hectic and haphazard affair but the soundtrack of well-made soul covers and the cruder music of Mr. Jackson and Mr. Mac’s foulmouthed one-upmanship provide a measure of satisfaction." equally familiar stock characters including a hip-hop thug (Affion Crockett) a doughy white nerd who loves black music (Adam Herschman) and Jennifer Coolidge. They also trip over some unconvincing sentimentality involving Cleo (Sharon Leal) the daughter of a woman both men once loved." Matt Leonetti; edited by John Carter; choreography by Jamal Sims; production designer Richard Hoover; produced by David T. Friendly Charles Castaldi and Steve Greener; released by Dimension Films and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." rambling comedy offering some laughs some groans and a feast for fans of the musical idioms it mocks and celebrates. It is also something of a bittersweet experience for fans of Isaac Hayes who has an extended cameo as himself and Bernie Mac who plays Floyd Henderson half of a has-been vocal duo reunited for one last show." 
6702
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07repo.html
Anthony Stewart Head (Nathan/Repo Man) Sarah Brightman (Blind Mag) Paris Hilton (Amber Sweet) Ogre (Pavi Largo) Terrance Zdunich (GraveRobber) Bill Moseley (Luigi Largo) and Paul Sorvino (Rotti Largo)." the director of several “Saw” sequels has devised an excruciating new torture with “Repo! The Genetic Opera.” Set about 50 years hence this high-concept tone-deaf musical imagines a dystopian society afflicted by widespread organ failure biological black markets and spontaneous outbreaks of painfully monotonous rock ’n’ roll." “Repo!” feels destined to please a campy coterie of fans and no one else. Granted there is a measure of originality in conceiving a horror-inflected rock opera on scientific and political themes and no film starring Paris Hilton as a marginalized heiress whose poorly grafted face slides clean off her skull is entirely without its guilty pleasures." based on their stage play; director of photography Joseph White; edited by Harvey Rosenstock; music and lyrics by Mr. Smith and Mr. Zdunich; production designer David Hackl; produced by Daniel Jason Heffner Carl Mazzocone Oren Koules and Mark Burg; released by Lionsgate. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." you die by the song. A few catchy melodies some clever lyrics or even a sense that the score wasn’t just one long unmodulated track might have energized this singularly inert tale of a young girl (Alexa Vega) seeking answers to the nature of her peculiar genetic disease and the strange history of  an Orwellian biotech firm named GeneCo." 
6703
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07pray.html
the movie takes off in 2003 when a group of Liberian women pushed their peacemaking tactics into a far more aggressive confrontational register. Founded by freed American slaves in 1847 the country had spiraled into unfathomable chaos after years of civil war. The former warlord turned president Charles Taylor was fending off competing rebel leaders who using child soldiers armed with Kalashnikovs and zonked out on drugs were steadily bleeding Liberia to death. Putting aside their religious differences Christian and Muslim women decided to fight the murderers with peace." for instance that the filmmakers had spent more time with Asatu Bah Kenneth a vision of the modern African woman that defies easy categorization. A police officer whose ample bosom gives her the aspect of a well-fortified citadel Ms. Kenneth is a Muslim who wears pants to work and a head scarf to the mosque. She’s a terrifically appealing interview subject but like the other teary and defiant testifiers remains frustratingly obscure. The filmmakers seem to take it as a matter of faith that building a peace movement on a gender divide can work because men make war and women make peace. It’s a reassuring idea perhaps though the image of Ms. Kenneth in her police uniform suggests that the world is more complicated." the women gathered in a field in the nation’s capital Monrovia and prayed and sang dancing under the hot sun and in the hard rain and demanding a meeting with the president. Though some of their strategies in specific a threat to withhold sex at times recall Aristophanes’ comic play “Lysistrata ” their story is steeped in blood and tears. If anything the movie only skims the surface of the Liberian tragedy which comes most unbearably into focus here with a story about a woman who was forced to watch as her husband’s throat was cut. At 72 minutes the movie can only gesture at the horror and its historical antecedents offering up a quick sketch of moments and portraits that demand greater detail." Kirsten Johnson; produced by Abigail E. Disney; released by Balcony Releasing. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village.  Running time: 1 hour 12 minutes. This film is not rated." disheartening inspiring enraging — the mind reels while watching the documentary “Pray the Devil Back to Hell ” even as the eyes water the temples pound and the body trembles. Directed by Gini Reticker and produced by Abigail E. Disney this no-frills no-nonsense inquiry into human beings at their absolute worst and heartening best charts the overlooked  victory of the Liberian women’s peace movement. Even those who think they know the story of modern Liberia may be surprised at what they discover." 
6704
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07paja.html
Bruno said Mother (Vera Farmiga) in a British accent. Come Bruno come. See Bruno and Shmuel meet across an unguarded barbed wire fence. See Bruno and Shmuel laugh perhaps because there are no soldiers guarding this fence even though in John Boyne’s allegorical children’s novel on which this film is based the farm is Auschwitz. See Bruno whose blue eyes and dark hair tend to make him look like a Nazi moppet eat the food he said he would give to Shmuel. See Shmuel look even sadder than usual. See Bruno learn that the farmers are Jews." Jack Scanlon (Shmuel) Amber Beattie (Gretel) David Thewlis (Father) Vera Farmiga (Mother) Richard Johnson (Grandpa) Sheila Hancock (Grandma) Rupert Friend (Lieutenant Kotler) David Hayman (Pavel) Jim Norton (Herr Liszt) and Cara Horgan (Maria)." based on the novel by John Boyne; director of photography Benoit Delhomme; edited by Michael Ellis; music by James Horner; production designer Martin Childs; produced by David Heyman; released by Miramax Films. At the Cinema 1 2 3 Third Avenue at 60th Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." like the artificial naïf would face: Jews are supposed to be bad and yet Shmuel is nice. See Bruno tunnel with astonishing rapidity into the camp. See the film’s director Mark Herman take his camera into a gas chamber where naked men and children huddle and two little hands clasp before the film cuts to black. Do not see the blood and excrement on the walls or the dead piled on the floor. See Mother howling outside the camp in the rain as the camera hovers over her. See Father (David Thewlis) realizing that his son has been swept away by the Nazi death machine he himself helps run look horror-stricken. See the Holocaust trivialized glossed over kitsched up commercially exploited and hijacked for a tragedy about a Nazi family. Better yet and in all sincerity: don’t." 
6705
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07mada.html
a deranged lemur whose daft non sequiturs and bon mots are dropped and dribbled with dexterity and control by an unrecognizable Sacha Baron Cohen (at times sounding like a less frantic Robin Williams) the penguins and chimps could have skittered into something memorable. Alas the filmmakers who clearly are having as much fun visually with these scene stealers as they are aurally stick by the contemporary American animation playbook: Alex has a dream (gotta dance) father issues (with Bernie Mac as the pride of the pride) and a requisite baddie rival (Alec Baldwin who else?). There’s also an unfunny old lady with a Jackie Mason accent who deserves a violently cruel end but this is a PG movie." generally more diverting entertainment creeping crawling and waddling along the edges of “Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa” than the larger one lollygagging on screen. This central story of this new animated movie written by Etan Cohen and the directors Eric Darnell and Tom McGrath involves Alex (Ben Stiller in low gear) a lion who in 2005 journeyed from New York captivity (i.e. a zoo) to the jungle in the first “Madagascar” with the usual mix of celebrity-voiced racial and ethnic stereotypes: a motor-mouthed zebra Marty (Chris Rock); a nice if woefully neurotic giraffe Melman (David Schwimmer); and the token girl a hippo with a sizeable caboose named Gloria (Jada Pinkett Smith)." quite possibly insane Skipper (Mr. McGrath) a sleek ball of feathers and fat who simultaneously brings to mind Jon Lovitz Phil Hartman John Wayne and a cue ball. Along with his two sidekicks a couple of stooges called Kowalski and Private (Chris Miller and Christopher Knights) Skipper keeps first the plane and then — after crash-landing on an African savannah — the movie moving with his deadpan delivery and with some surrealistic nonsense involving a barrel of laughing monkeys. (I see a big future for Mason and his silent partner Phil the two-chimp team whose lah-di-dah manners and sartorial flair recall that of the 1970s television ape Lancelot Link.)" but it’s also a bummer. “Escape 2 Africa” is good enough in patches to make its distracting star turns storybook clichés and stereotypes harder to take than they would be in a less enjoyable movie. Casting Mr. Stiller and Mr. Schwimmer may sear their brands onto under-age cerebral cortices but does nothing for the movie. And really did the hippo (voiced by will.i.am from the Black Eyed Peas) who courts Gloria with a low rumble and a suggestive shimmy  have to sound like Barry White rather than say Marc Anthony or Justin Timberlake? I laughed but honestly if this country can vote colorblind surely its movie studios can animate colorblind too. (Can’t they?)" Mr. Darnell and Mr. McGrath; music by will.i.am and Hans Zimmer; production designer Kendal Cronkhite; produced by Mireille Soria and Mark Swift; released by DreamWorks Animation and Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes." which may explain why they spend so much time playing with the penguins chimps and King Julien who may not roar but certainly rules. There’s true playfulness here whenever this wacky animal pack takes over a suggestion of delirium echoed by the zippy at times overly zooming camerawork with its roller-coaster dips and swoops. And while the filmmakers throw the camera around almost as much as Brian De Palma does every so often they slow down giving you a chance to scan the softly muted colors of the landscapes and explore how the exaggerated character designs create a nice visual contrast with the photorealistic details and flourishes." Chris Rock (Marty) David Schwimmer (Melman) Jada Pinkett Smith (Gloria) Sacha Baron Cohen (King Julien) Cedric the Entertainer (Maurice) Andy Richter (Mort) Bernie Mac (Zuba) Sherri Shepherd (Alex’s Mom) Alec Baldwin (Makunga) Tom McGrath (Skipper) Conrad Vernon (Mason) and will.i.am (Moto Moto)." 
6706
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07jcvd.html
to distinguish him from the actor Mr. Van Damme) decides to do fleeing Hollywood in the wake of an ugly custody battle with his ex-wife and landing in his blue-collar red-brick hometown outside Brussels. He may be seeking a simpler more authentic way of life but Mabrouk El Mechri the director (and with Frédéric Bénudis and Christophe Turpin the writer) of “JCVD ” has other plans. A botched bank robbery traps poor  JCVD in a tense hostage drama caught between a motley semi-incompetent gaggle of crooks and the cops who think  he’s one of the bad guys." as a foray into self-mocking self-aggrandizing career rehabilitation “JCVD” shows some promise and holds some interest. It would hold more if Mr. Van Damme were not so fundamentally lackluster a celebrity with a string of negligible movies to his name. While the filmmakers — and the star himself — gamely make fun of this legacy of mediocrity they cannot quite escape it. This may well be the most memorable Jean-Claude Van Damme movie ever but I’m afraid that’s not saying much." Mr. Mechri and Christophe Turpin; director of photography Edouard Valton; music by Gast Waltzing; production designer Jean-Claude Salemi; released by Peace Arch Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." some of it tedious and the film’s inconsistencies of tone are made more glaring by its peculiar look. Everything seems to be shot through a gold filter making Mr. Van Damme look like an Oscar  statuette in a jaundice ward. The metallic visual texture is not only obtrusive but also baffling since it undercuts the pseudo-documentary touches that are central to the conceit of pretending to show a “real” JCVD in his real homeland. If he had  wandered into a movie by Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne Belgium’s masters of no-frills proletarian realism and hand-held camerawork now that might have been something to see." small-scale thriller blossom into a full-blown action picture with Mr. Van Damme’s fists feet and elbows enacting righteous payback on the villains? The possibility is teased whenever the tension starts to flag but “JCVD” more often aims for a knowing cerebral mood allowing its hero moments of moody contemplation during which he reflects on the strange lonely life of a middle-aged globally known martial artist." Hervé Sogne (Lieutenant Smith) François Damiens (Bruges) Norbert Rutili (Perthier) Olivier Bisback (Doctor) and Karim Belkhadra (Vigile)." perhaps — has great significance for Jean-Claude Van Damme the star protagonist and leading ontological conundrum of “JCVD ” as well as a one-time rival of Mr. Seagal’s for the title of world’s second-best second-rate action hero. Mr. Seagal’s supposed sacrifice a source of astonishment to this elfin Belgian muscleman suggests a possible answer to the question posed in and by this odd almost-clever film: what does an aging action-movie superstar have to do to keep himself in the game?" oblivious to the ravages of time in the pathologically stoical manner of Sylvester Stallone. Embrace self-parody and character roles in indie films as Bruce Willis has so brilliantly done. Maybe become the governor of a large state or failing that a tough-talking cheerleader for Mike Huckabee." 
6707
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/07/movies/07gard.html
” a harrowing obliquely told story of kidnapping and forced child prostitution that conjures a world entirely populated by predators and prey. Written and directed by Damian Harris (“Deceived ” “Bad Company”) who researched the subject for a decade “Gardens of the Night” has a ghastly air of authenticity." pretty 8-year-old Leslie Whitehead (Ryan Simpkins) is cajoled into a car on her way to school in Wilmington Pa. she is shuttled from one hideout to another by kidnappers who convince her that her parents don’t want her anymore. One piece of proof is a bogus cellphone number she is free to dial which her abductor Alex (Tom Arnold) tells her is her father’s. After weeks go by and no one answers she crumples up the paper on which he scrawled the number and gives up hope." Paula Huidobro; edited by Michal Shemesh; music by Craig Richey; production designer Bradd Fillmann; produced by R D Robb Pascal Franchot and Mr. Harris; released by City Lights Pictures. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." the movie becomes a sad but conventional study of throwaway street kids. What happened to them in the intervening years is left to the imagination. Neither Ms. Jacobs nor Mr. Ross infuses their characters with much personality beyond projecting a ravaged numbness." hale-fellow manner who loves his victims in a sick diabolical way. He wins Leslie’s trust by enlisting her help in finding a lost dog and gives her a ride to school. The next day he reappears and spirits her away." which makes it all the more sinister. In these scenes “Gardens of the Night” taps into childhood memories of straining to understand the mysterious ways of the grown-up world when things go wrong." sexual situations and one scene of violence." whose wife (Cornelia Guest) shepherds her into an upstairs room where she silently waits for the unknown with three other girls all wearing numbed expressions. In the ugliest scene Leslie is taken to a motel room where a sweet-talking john (Harold Perrineau) cajoles her into letting him touch her then turns violent when she resists." Leslie shares quarters with Donnie (Jermaine Scooter Smith) a fellow kidnap victim who becomes her only friend. As she reads aloud from “The Jungle Book ” they find temporary solace in an imaginary animal kingdom." Ryan Simpkins (Leslie at 8) Evan Ross (Donnie) Jermaine Scooter Smith (young Donnie) Tom Arnold (Alex) Kevin Zegers (Frank) Jeremy Sisto (Jimmy) Raynold Gideon (Judge Feeney) Cornelia Guest (Mrs. Feeney) and Harold Perrineau (Orlando)." Alex bursts into the room with a gun. Left uncertain is whether the scene was an assignation gone amok or was staged as part of Alex’s brainwashing program." bellowing through a stopped-up nose but unflappably cheerful and solicitous he insists he is her protector though she soon realizes he is not. Alex who has a sullen hothead sidekick Frank (Kevin  Zegers) wheels and deals with a distributor of child pornography (Jeremy Sisto).  (None of  the pornography is seen in the film or is shown being made.)" 
6708
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/05/movies/05stag.html
Marcel Musters (Martin) Stijn Koomen (Isaac) and Jeroen Willems (Joris)." Ton Peters; edited by Dorith Vinken; produced by Joost de Vries and Leontine Petit; released by Lemming Film. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas Greenwich Village. In Dutch with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." stealing time and space rather than property and his prized possession is a fearsome samurai sword. When Roos with whom he lives comes home Isaac retreats into his iPod." Isaac is a shared concern and a source of contention and competition an excuse for each to blame and berate the other. For the audience  he is an enigma not least because we wonder what traits of temperament he has inherited from his parents. Martin a slovenly chain-smoking writer whose bluff amiability frequently slides toward boorishness thinks Roos should just let Isaac be free. It’s clear that he regarded their marriage as a constraint on his own freedom and it’s also possible to see Roos through his eyes as a passive-aggressive worrier." but there’s really no other way to describe Roos (Elsie de Brauw) and Martin (Marcel Musters) the Dutch ex-spouses whose table talk dominates “Stages ” an oblique intermittently intriguing film by Mijke de Jong. For these two the line between love and hate is not so much thin as crooked and blurry. Their habitual affection for each other is obvious but also frequently indistinguishable from mutual contempt." but not always edifying. “Stages” feels less like an invasion of privacy than like an oversharing introduction to people you might not want to know in the first place. That an American art-house audience is likely to recognize Martin and Roos — earnest self-satisfied intellectuals who spend a lot of time in restaurants — does not necessarily make them appealing. Or even all that interesting however incisive Ms. de Jong’s exploration of their shared discontent may be." she is  much more likable than her ex-husband though “Stages” is studiously even-handed even clinical in its observations. The camera floats behind heads and in front of faces as Ms. de Jong rejects the usual grammar of shot and countershot making you feel as if you’re eavesdropping on intimate meandering conversations." but rather to hover as they fight commiserate flirt and complain. “Stages” is structured as a series of conversations in public places — between Roos and Martin and also between each of them and various colleagues and friends — interspersed with scenes of their teenage son Isaac (Stijn Koomen) in solitude." 
6709
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/01/movies/01moll.html
leaving Molly to wonder why she can’t just be grounded like everyone else." the kind of fortunate son who thrives primarily by hosting plantation-style parties." lots of people want to save her including the local bad seed (Shannon Marie Woodward) — identified by her strategically ripped tights — and a creepy evangelist (Shanna Collins) who’d like to be Molly’s BFF but whose fundamentalist frocks are early disqualifiers." ” an unexpectedly cynical addition to the teen-scream genre." arm snapping and nasal probing." her mother (Marin Hinkle) is raving in a psych ward after taking a pair of scissors to Molly’s chest; for another the uniform required by her snobby new school is extremely unflattering. No wonder she hears voices and sees visions." “The Haunting of Molly Hartley” is no more than a big-screen lasso for the “Gossip Girl” and “Supernatural” demographic. The press notes rave about its “hot young cast all on the verge of breaking out.” I hear they have creams for that." 
6710
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/31/movies/31zack.html
with mixed results both to rub our faces in the tawdriness and to erase it altogether. The movie wants to insist that pornography is a jolly innocuous pursuit but also to take refuge in a sincere romantic traditionalism that is antithetical to the  cynical often playful sexual ethos of pornography. Mr. Smith is intent on making a love story which is almost by definition the opposite of the kind of movie Zack and Miri set out to produce." in spite of an avalanche of verbal filth (and a smaller quantum of the visual variety) “Zack and Miri” is not very shocking at all. Mr. Smith has been tinkering with the dirty-mind/soft-heart combination for quite some time forming a link of sorts between the humanist sexual anarchy of John Waters and the smutty Victorianism of Judd Apatow. He and his characters revel in dialogue that riffs on body parts and bodily fluids but Mr. Smith’s stories are bathed — metaphorically! — in syrup and schmaltz." ” in spite of its sometimes tiresome sometimes amusing lewdness follows a gee-whiz romantic-comedy formula that would not be out of place on the Disney Channel. Two best friends who have always been in love with each other discover that  ...  they have always been in love with each other. Granted this revelation occurs while they are having sex in front of a camera but it is so sweet and predictable that these potentially tawdry circumstances hardly matter." before “Zack and Miri Make a Porno” decides to wear its heart on its sleeve and keep everything else in its pants. Justin Long and Brandon Routh —  Superman! — do some droll camping at the reunion and Mr. Mewes uses his deadpan immunity to embarrassment to good effect." directed and edited by Kevin Smith; director of photography Dave Klein; production designer Robert Holtzman; produced by Scott Mosier; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." ” Ms. Banks (who plays Laura Bush in Oliver Stone’s “W.”) is forced to be funny on a pedestal. She has to be the nice girl with the naughty mouth just uninhibited enough to play along with Zack’s schemes but not so daring as to tarnish his idealized image of her." Elizabeth Banks (Miri Linky) Traci Lords (Bubbles) Jason Mewes (Lester) Ricky Mabe (Barry) Craig Robinson (Delaney) Katie Morgan (Stacey) Justin Long (Brandon) Brandon Routh (Bobby Long) and Jeff Anderson (Deacon)." living in a run-down Pittsburgh apartment and in that treacherous stretch between the end of adolescence and the onset of maturity. Approaching their 10th high school reunion Zack and Miri are broke miserable and alienated. This has always been Mr. Smith’s comfort zone. He is a poet of failure and Mr. Rogen is unmatched at playing reasonably nice reasonably smart guys with minimal ambitions that they may nonetheless fail to realize." but not very convincing either. The “porno” remains unfinished and so does “Zack and Miri ” having — like most pornography interestingly enough — thrown away an imaginative premise to get down to predictable mechanical business. It’s as if Mr. Smith were a plumber who knocked at your door and then against all reasonable expectations insisted on fixing the sink." including the real-life former porn star Traci Lords and  the  Kevin Smith stalwarts  Jason Mewes and Jeff Anderson who signs on as director of photography." a harried husband played by Craig Robinson (“The Office ” a show-stopping monologue in “Knocked Up”) who is fast becoming the most dependable comic counterpuncher in the business and who needs some bigger roles or a sitcom of his own right away. When Zack and Miri hatch their plan to climb out of debt by making a skin flick Delaney becomes their producer." New York”? “Quantum of Solace”? “The Secret Life of Bees”? — Kevin Smith has given his new opus a name that tells you exactly what it’s about. Literal-mindedness has always been among Mr. Smith’s calling cards. His first film about clerks was called “Clerks.” And so it will hardly be shocking that “Zack and Miri Make a Porno” is about two people named Zack (Seth Rogen) and Miri (Elizabeth Banks) who make what my copy editors would prefer that I call a pornographic movie." but mostly just talk." 
6711
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/31/movies/31mata.html
Spain he would pretend his mother’s dish towels were capes to flap before imaginary bulls. By the time he was a young man the homely props had been exchanged for squares of crimson and magenta: the parakeet hues of the professional bullfighter. For his mother however the memory of those childish games may not be entirely fond." ” Mr. Fandila mutters at one point though the sentiment could as easily have been delivered by his older brother Juan Alvaro a former professional skier turned faithful acolyte. Some of the film’s best scenes follow the brothers’ silent preparations for the ring the religious overtones of the dressing ritual impossible to overlook. (David who rarely sees his girlfriend might as well have taken a vow of celibacy.) Shots of rhinestone-encrusted boleros standing stiffly on chairs remind us not only of armature but also of the oppressive weight of family expectations." because it’s very easy to be seduced by “The Matador” (and to suffer the morning-after contrition). Barbaric elegant primitive erotic revolting thrilling: the movie like bullfighting itself is all of these." the story of Mr. Fandila’s quest to reach 100 fights in a single season — a goal only 12 matadors have so far achieved — unspools with more drama than most blockbusters. Blessed with a charismatic leading man an arcane setting (bullfighting has roots in Roman sacrificial religion) and a narrative steeped in blood and hand-to-hoof combat — not to mention a triumphant six-bull climax — the film is a Hemingway fantasy." 300 pounds or more) that dominates the film’s breathtaking superbly edited fight sequences. Frantically pivoting mere inches from heaving muscle laying a hand between monstrous horns — like a man halting an express train by sheer will — Mr. Fandila is a magnificent lunatic. Yet as he rears back spine curved like a bow and arms raised to plunge the banderillas the line between man and bull reason and instinct is obliterated. Stripping away centuries of civilization “The Matador” confronts something primal in human nature daring us to do the same." Christopher Jenkins and James Morton-Haworth; edited by Ian Rummer; music by John Califra; produced by Mr. Higgins and  Ms. Seavey; released by City Lights Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 14 minutes. This film is not rated." a lonely argument against the willful courting of danger and death. She reminds us that beneath the pageantry and yes artistry lies a performance that many people view as little more than ritualized slaughter." Stephen Higgins and Nina Gilden Seavey who cleverly ride the action with barely a nod to objectivity. Though bullfighting’s opponents are given glancing attention “The Matador” doesn’t pretend to be a dissection of the tradition or a moral assessment of its practitioners. Accompanying their subject from press conference to bullring from Spain to Peru the filmmakers paint instead an unapologetic portrait of a life filled with complexity and contradiction: of a shy socially isolated young man who nevertheless excels at exhibitionism." 
6712
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/31/movies/31unde.html
testimony to the opacity of the past. Victor’s hunger for the truth is both perfectly understandable and somewhat ambiguous. He seems to want the comfort of knowing what happened to his parents and grandparents before his birth but he also welcomes the torment that such knowledge inevitably brings. His own suffering is a kind of compensation for the guilt he feels at having lived a comfortable uneventful life in the bosom of the French bourgeoisie." but rather is suffused with a quiet glow of sympathy and enlightenment. Its narrow scope and calm demeanor are signs of its seriousness and integrity." Hippolyte Girardot (Victor) Emmanuelle Devos (Françoise) and Dominique Blanc (Tania)." based on a story by Dan Franck and Jérôme Clément from the book by Mr. Clément; director of photography Caroline Champetier; edited by Isabelle Ingold; production designer Manu de Chauvigny; music by Louis Sclavis; produced by Serge Moati and Nicole Collet; released by Kino International. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." but as Ms. Moreau’s performance unfolds the character’s courage and resilience emerge more pointedly into view. She is of course a goddess of French film and here she gives a master class in how to be regal without vanity and how to use the hard-won charisma of a movie star to illuminate the dignity of an ordinary person." which starts to worry his wife Françoise (Emmanuelle Devos). But though it hovers around intense emotions and nearly unfathomable pain “One Day You’ll Understand” resists sentimentality or easy catharsis. Mr. Gitai a senior figure in Israel’s young blossoming cinema has always brought a measure of rigorous detachment to even the most traumatic stories of his nation’s past and present." Mr. Gitai takes an  approach that is deliberate and objective. A hand-held camera roams the chambers and corridors of Rivka’s apartment and  telling details register almost accidentally. The apartment itself is part of a tragic family history as is the run-down provincial hotel where Victor travels to see the hiding place of grandparents he never knew." who as head of the Gestapo in Lyon was responsible for the death and deportation of thousands of French Jews represents the public face of the Holocaust in France. Victor and his mother Rivka (Jeanne Moreau) live with the private intimate consequences of what Barbie and his collaborators did. Not that Rivka herself dwells on such things. A Jewish woman whose dead husband had signed an official document attesting to his Aryan identity she lives in a quiet bubble of old-lady elegance surrounded by keepsakes and visited by her fond children and grandchildren." a Frenchman named Victor (Hippolyte Girardot) combs through documents hoping to uncover the truth about his family’s past. At first glance in the opening minutes of Amos Gitai’s “One Day You’ll Understand ” the connection between the prisoner in the dock and the businessman in his office is mysterious; but in the course  of Mr. Gitai’s subtle contemplative exploration of memory and loss it becomes clear enough." 
6713
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/31/movies/31monk.html
five young men with nothing better to do enlisted in the United States Army and found themselves stationed in Germany at the height of the cold war. United by their shared ambivalence and interest in music they started jamming in G.I. bars and playing in local clubs." Mr. Post and Ms. Palacios; edited by Dieter Jaufmann and K. W. Huelsenbeck; music by the Monks. In English and German with English subtitles. At Anthology Film Archives 32-34 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." ” an ambitious but unfocused  documentary by the filmmakers Dietmar Post and Lucía Palacios bids to immortalize this short-lived if influential group. The case is compelling — the Monks had an amazing sound that anticipated the avant-garde pop of the Velvet Underground — and a little hysterical: one of the band’s admirers claims that the social upheavals of 1968 would have happened two years earlier if everyone had been listening to the band." Walther Niemann and Karl-H. Remy who took up the band as a creative project remaking the musicians’ image and branding them the Monks. There was a look (a tonsure hairdo black garb rope nooses for necklaces) a sound (driving minimalism harsh vocals with repetitive lyrics feedback weird banjo) an ethos (the anti-Beatles) and eventually an album “Black Monk Time ” that would enter rock history as one of the great underground records of the 1960s." 
6714
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/31/movies/31bruc.html
Kurt Rauf; edited by Scott Smith; music by Joseph LoDuca; production designer George Costello; produced by Mr. Campbell and Mike Richardson; released by Image Entertainment. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes." James J. Peck (Guan-Di) Taylor Sharpe (Jeff) Ted Raimi (Mills Toddner) and Grace Thorsen (Kelly)." recycled jokes like the sight of two rugged miners in “Brokeback Mountain” mode growling “I can’t quit you.” It ridicules Asians for confusing r’s and l’s. The fact that “My Name Is Bruce” knows what it’s doing doesn’t mean its funny." Guan-Di who suggests a cut-rate yeti with phosphorescent orange eyes is no great shakes. But he is scary enough to throw the mining town of Gold Lick Ore. into a tizzy. Jeff naïvely assuming that his idol is identical to the heroes he plays on the screen kidnaps Mr. Campbell and transports him to Gold Lick to save the town. Initially the jaded middle-aged star assumes it is all an elaborate birthday stunt cooked up by his agent (Ted Raimi). But no sooner does he encounter the monster than he realizes it is no joke and runs for his life. Shamed by his own cowardice he returns to redeem himself." sexual situations and gross-out sight gags." ” a silly horror comedy that only a cultist could love Bruce Campbell (“The Evil Dead ” “Bubba Ho-tep”) the star of countless B-movie thrillers mercilessly spoofs himself. The “real” Mr. Campbell as portrayed by the real Mr. Campbell is a mean drunk and womanizer who lives in a trailer strewn with whiskey bottles and haggles over alimony on the telephone with his ex-wife. In addition to despising his adoring fans he is a yellow-bellied coward." a besotted teenage fan Jeff (Taylor Sharpe) while desecrating a cemetery with some friends accidentally releases its resident monster. Once freed the creature Guan-Di the Chinese god of war goes on the rampage." 
6715
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/31/movies/31spli.html
bare-bones script by Ian Shorr and Kai Barry the director Toby Wilkins honors the conventions of the genre with skill and enough wit to keep the scares sharp. The monsters — whose sudden appearance on the landscape is never explained but whose habits are analyzed by Seth a biology grad student — are as gruesome as zombies and as creepy as bugs. Their spines bore into flesh consume blood and transform dead bodies (and even severed limbs) into lurching flesh-eaters." ” a diverting if not terribly original on-the-cheap horror film a gas-station attendant is eating potato chips when a howling spiny creature suddenly eats him." Jill Wagner (Polly Watt) Paulo Costanzo (Seth Belzer) Shea Whigham (Dennis Farell) Rachel Kerbs (Lacey Belisle) and Laurel Whitsett (Sheriff Terri Frankel)." the scene shifts to two couples: Seth (Paulo Costanzo) and Polly (Jill Wagner) who are out on an anniversary camping trip and Dennis (Shea Whigham who can also be seen in “Pride and Glory”) and Lacey (Rachel Kerbs) who are armed on the lam kicking a drug habit and prone to swearing even when it makes no grammatical sense. These four will spend the next  90 minutes or so bickering and fighting off the strange spiky predators who turn the bodies of their victims into spastic ravenous porcupine zombies." the two couples spend a long bloody tense night at a convenience store. The situation is fairly basic and doesn’t have the psychological or sociological nuance that distinguishes similar scenarios in George Romero’s “Living Dead” movies. But even though the characters conform to every expected stereotype the acting is reasonably convincing. And the monsters travel light unburdened by allegorical baggage. What are they supposed to be? I don’t know. Just really gross and scary I think." Nelson Cragg; edited by David Michael Maurer; production designer Jennifer Spence; creature design by Ozzy Alvarez; produced by Mr. Barry and Ted Kroeber; released by Magnet Releasing. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes." 
6716
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/31/movies/31dear.html
2001 Mr. Kuenne’s oldest friend from childhood Andrew Bagby a doctor doing his residency in Latrobe Pa. was shot to death in a parking lot. The killer Shirley Turner Andrew’s mentally unstable Canadian-born ex-girlfriend immediately fled the United States to live in St. John’s Newfoundland where she successfully fought attempts at extradition. Pregnant with Andrew’s child at the time of the killing she gave birth to a baby boy Zachary on July 18 2002." “Dear Zachary: A Letter to a Son About His Father.” At once a personal documentary about the murder of his best friend and a polemical rant against the Canadian justice system for coddling a dangerous sociopath it wants to provoke outrage." their fears were justified; the other shoe dropped. How and when I leave you to discover for yourself." 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." “Dear Zachary” was conceived as a cinematic scrapbook for Zachary consisting of home movies Mr. Kuenne made with Andrew and loving reminiscences by Andrew’s family and friends all of whom attest to what a wonderful generous life-loving fellow he was." his parents David and Kathleen sold their house in Sunnyvale Calif. and moved to Canada to be near their grandson. Fearing that the boy was in danger from his mother they waged a protracted custody battle with Shirley. To their horror she was freed on bail pending extradition on the ground that she posed no danger to society because she had killed the one person she wanted dead." 
6717
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/29/movies/29lebow.html
Fred Lebow was more than just the director of the race and the president of New York Road Runners. He was a fixture of city life instantly recognizable for his skinny frame neat beard and ever-present cycling cap. An immigrant from Romania (where he was born Fischl Lebowitz) with a background in the garment business Lebow helped turn running from a solitary and eccentric pursuit into a major sport and a staple of American culture." throngs of runners gather at the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and crowds of spectators line the route that snakes through Brooklyn and the western edge of Queens before dipping into Upper Manhattan and the Bronx and ending in Central Park. A new documentary “Run for Your Life ” offers a salutary and touching reminder that the race like nearly everything else great about New York City was largely the creation of an odd stubborn visionary." a transformation that Lebow without necessarily intending to surely helped along." when the marathon became a high-profile five-borough event the city was suffering from a crisis of order and morale that seems almost inconceivable now. In that context sending thousands of people in shorts on a Sunday jog through the streets must have seemed marvelously mad. But now with the specter of hard times before the city again the race is a marvelously reassuring fact of life." moments of glory are recalled — Alberto Salazar’s world record Grete Waitz’s nine victories — along with a few episodes of ignominy without which this would hardly be a New York story. I’m sure Lebow would have been just as glad to forget the name Rosie Ruiz who traversed most of the course in a subway car in 1979 but viewers will probably be amused by the memory of the scandal she caused or tickled to learn of it for the first time." quasi-evangelical zeal and entrepreneurial hustle. Using on-camera interviews with friends and colleagues and archival film and video clips “Run for Your Life ” directed by Judd Ehrlich is mainly an affectionate portrait of the man whose every foible and virtue is noted with fond tolerance. The film which is being released simultaneously on DVD and in a Manhattan theater also offers a history of the marathon from its beginnings as a sparsely attended four-lap race around Central Park through its apotheosis as a wellspring of civic pride and corporate sponsorship." 
6718
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/29/movies/29bask.html
” a functional (if narrowly interesting) history lesson by the filmmaker David Vyorst recollects the rich history of Jewish participation in basketball starting with its embrace in the thriving immigrant community on the Lower East Side of New York and ending with a look at the continuing popularity of the game in Israel." Gary Griffin; edited by Carol Slatkin; music by Roberto Juan Rodriguez; released by Laemmle/Zeller Films. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." as well as testaments from former players and coaches Mr. Vyorst shows how basketball functioned among Jews as both a vehicle for cultural assimilation and a means of reformulating Jewish identity which prized the scholar not the athlete as the masculine ideal." Shaquille O’Neal and Kobe Bryant it may come as a surprise to learn that it all began with people like Nat Holman Sammy Kaplan and Red Auerbach. There hasn’t been a Jewish basketball star in the National Basketball Association for half a century but when the sport was young it was the children of European Jewish immigrants who took it up and dominated it." 
6719
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/25/movies/25saw.html
“Saw V” makes the fatal mistake of taking itself way too seriously. Like a once-popular TV show that degenerates in its final season into self-involved soul-searching of interest only to the most devoted trivia-obsessed fans the movie seems to think that people care about the “Saw” mythos as opposed to the “Saw” method of preposterously baroque killing for kicks." David A. Armstrong; edited by Kevin Greutert; music by Charlie Clouser; production designer Tony Ianni; produced by Greg Hoffman Oren Koules and Mark Burg; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." the new film devotes most of its time and energy to a pair of the dullest characters in the history of horror: the law enforcement agents Hoffman (Costas Mandylor) and Strahm (Scott Patterson). Having survived the shenanigans of the psycho known as Jigsaw they now find themselves enmeshed in the antics of a laughably convoluted plot that skips back and forth in time trying to piece together who did what when and why. The only question really worth asking here: Who cares?" Costas Mandylor (Hoffman) Scott Patterson (Agent Strahm) Betsy Russell (Jill) Mark Rolston (Erickson) Julie Benz (Brit) and Meagan Good (Luba)." nerve-racking trip into the cesspool of the human imagination since that seems to be the point of this undying horror franchise. Sadly the latest and least of the “Saw” films is just plain boring and even a little tame  — albeit by the standards of a genre that helped bring the phrase “torture porn” into the lexicon." 
6720
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/25/movies/25rome.html
“Romeo” isn’t visually attractive though there are some nice touches: a dingy spit-splattered “No spitting sign”; a beautifully detailed train; and peeling movie posters with images of larger-than-life stars reminding us of Bollywood’s true glory." a honey-colored pup living on the Mumbai streets has the voice of Saif Ali Khan and he’s a typical Khan character a Westernized sweet-talker with a propensity to start every sentence with “Dude” and “O.K. guys.” His idea for financial uplift? Open a hair salon which he does with his crew of Bollywood-savvy mutts. (The uninitiated needn’t worry; the subtitles let no reference go unparsed as in “Imitating Shah Rukh Khan”  after a line of dialogue.) Trouble occurs when the gang runs afoul of Charlie Anna (Jaaved Jaaferi) the big don dog who loves Laila (Kareena Kapoor) the same fluffy white creature with dreadful pink eye shadow that Romeo adores." ” Bollywood continues its technological juggernaut. A co-production of Yash Raj Films and Walt Disney Pictures “Romeo” is something new under the Indian sun: sophisticated computer-generated animation that uses stars to voice the characters. But craftsmanship and Disney aside “Romeo” is very much a conventional Hindi movie with a small-guys-versus-gangsters plot song-and-dance sequences and film references galore." “Roadside Romeo” may have its stars’ voices but what it needs is their bodies. Perhaps Bollywood’s most ingratiating quality is how hard the actors work to entertain you: they dance they cry they risk appearing silly. The animated dogs in “Romeo” aren’t particularly appealing. They mostly walk on two legs and unlike Disney characters don’t wear anything beyond neck gear. They look oddly naked and move awkwardly which flattens the dance sequences and keeps the film earthbound." 
6721
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/25/movies/25pass.html
Igor Jadue-Lillo; edited by Thom Noble; music by Ed Shearmur; production designer David Brisbin; produced by Keri Selig Matthew Rhodes Judd Payne and Julie Lynn; released by TriStar. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." frightened Judy Garland eyes Ms. Hathaway lends “Passengers” a frisson of anxiety. But how much emotional zing can be extracted from lifeless dialogue whose sole purpose is patching together 100 minutes of clichés?" I would rather point the finger at Ronnie Christensen whose thudding suspense-free screenplay mindlessly recycles gimmicks borrowed from “The Sixth Sense” and “The Others.” Mr. Christensen’s previous credits include the obscure television horror movies “Chameleon 3: Dark Angel” and “Monster!”" suspicious-looking strangers lurk outside her office and peer through the windows. Arkin (David Morse) a sinister airline representative also keeps turning up in odd places and Claire’s boss Perry (Andre Braugher) treats her as if she might need therapy herself." Patrick Wilson and Dianne Wiest attached themselves to “Passengers ” a supernatural thriller so mechanically inept and lacking in suspense that it doesn’t even pass muster as lowbrow Halloween-ready entertainment. But of all the talents squandered on this lemon the most painful waste is that of its director Rodrigo García whose 2005 film “Nine Lives ” and television series “In Treatment” revealed him as a writer-director with the sensitivity and insight of a contemporary Chekhov. Here that sensitivity is nowhere to be found." Toni (Ms. Wiest) is weirdly aggressive in promoting Claire’s  possible romance with Eric." Patrick Wilson (Eric) David Morse (Arkin) Andre Braugher (Perry) Clea DuVall (Shannon) and Dianne Wiest (Toni)." a grief counselor enlisted to conduct therapy sessions with a handful of traumatized survivors from a plane crash that left more than a hundred dead. No sooner have the sessions begun than her patients begin disappearing. But one strangely euphoric survivor Eric (Patrick Wilson) pursues her ardently and seems to be able to read her mind." 
6722
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24long.html
tracing the long shadow that a child’s death can cast over a family’s subsequent efforts at happiness. In “Rachel Getting Married ” Jonathan Demme’s ebulliently therapeutic domestic drama the title character’s wedding is haunted by memories of the accident some years in the past that took the life of her younger brother. The specter of a lost boy killed by a rare genetic disorder also complicates the lives of his parents and surviving siblings in Arnaud Desplechin’s “Christmas Tale ” which opens next month. And “I’ve Loved You So Long ” a new French film written and directed by Philippe Claudel is dominated by the murder more than a decade in the past of a 6-year-old boy." as reliable as the first frost or the turning foliage is the proliferation of dead abused or endangered children on movie screens. It sometimes seems that you can’t make a serious film these days without one. Nothing cranks up the dramatic intensity quite as effectively as a child in peril — see Clint Eastwood’s “Changeling ” opening Friday (review on Page C1) for the latest evidence of this Hollywood axiom — and nothing seems to make ambitious actors happier than parental grief." Jérôme Alméras; edited by Virginia Bunting; music by Jean-Louis Aubert; produced by Sylvestre Guarino; released by Sony Pictures Classics. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes." shocking in itself is made unimaginably more so because the murderer was the boy’s mother Juliette played with terrifying heartbreaking poise by Kristin Scott Thomas. Released from prison after a 15-year sentence Juliette moves in with her younger sister Léa (Elsa Zylberstein) a college literature instructor with a loving husband named Luc (Serge Hazanavicius) and two adorable adopted daughters. Juliette affectless chain-smoking wrapped in a bulky overcoat drifts through her sister’s house in the French city of Nancy like a restless ghost unsettling the inhabitants as she struggles to emerge from a state of moral and spiritual limbo." in the end turns away from the Dostoyevskian implications of Juliette’s crime and its expiation. A revelation comes near the end that is both tremendously moving and a bit disappointing in the way that the solutions to great mysteries frequently are. This turn   does not diminish the accomplishment of Ms. Scott Thomas’s deep subtle and altogether stunning performance but it does alter the scale of the movie turning it into a more manageable less existentially unsettling drama. Which is a relief I suppose but also a bit of a letdown." and the spidery tones of Jean-Louis Aubert’s score create an atmosphere of mystery and dread that is both appropriate to the story and a little misleading. If “I’ve Loved You So Long” is not exactly a horror movie it is nonetheless filled with fear and foreboding. What Juliette did is hidden from her nieces and also from Luc and Léa’s social circle into which she makes a few tentative steps. And the particulars of Juliette’s crime are left unspoken even as Léa (like the audience) can barely contain her curiosity. Is her sister a penitent a madwoman or a monster? Does her quiet decorous depressive manner represent a longing for peace or the sublimated threat of further violence? Why did she do it?" Elsa Zylberstein (Léa) Serge Hazanavicius (Luc) Laurent Grevill (Michel) Frédéric Pierrot (Fauré) and Lise Ségur (P’tit Lys)." she refuses to solicit sympathy or to offer reciprocal reassuring warmth when it comes her way. But as Juliette makes her way from one day to the next  — picking up a stranger for sex looking for a job forming tentative bonds with her nieces and with Luc’s father figuring out how to be friends with her needy nervous sister  — it becomes clear that the film is at bottom a story of rehabilitation and healing." whether or not she wants to be and the project she finds herself involved in half-heartedly at first is one of rehumanization. This is accomplished through contact with other people (including a colleague of Léa’s played by Laurent Grevill) and also through activities like reading looking at paintings and going to the cinema. In an entirely believable and matter-of-fact way Mr. Claudel’s film makes a case for the psychological and ethical necessity of art." not unreasonably is terrified — fearful for the safety of his own children and also perhaps somewhat superstitious about giving evil a place in his home. And Ms. Scott Thomas does not rush to dispel the possibility that Juliette polite and pretty as she is might also be a person of irreducible depravity." in a remarkable scene involving Léa and her students in which she berates them for treating fiction (in this case Dostoyevsky’s “Crime and Punishment”) as an exalted reflection of life. Her fury arises in part from her own inability to make sense of Juliette or of the tangle of contradictory feelings her sister inspires." and so are the risks of sentimental talk-show piety associated with it. Luckily Ms. Scott Thomas’s furious honesty rules out easy unearned redemption as does the film’s tough-minded resistance to the temptations of melodrama. A first-time director with a literary background (like Léa he teaches in Nancy and he has published several novels) Mr. Claudel is gratifyingly absorbed in details of setting and character. And even though the unfathomable horror in Juliette’s past dominates everything else the small felicities and absurdities of real life manage to peek through the gloom." 
6723
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24syne.html
“Synecdoche New York” is as much a cry from the heart as it is an assertion of creative consciousness. It’s extravagantly conceptual but also tethered to the here and now which is why for all its flights of fancy worlds within worlds and agonies upon agonies it comes down hard for living in the world with real breathing embracing bodies pressed against other bodies. To  be here now alive in the world as it is rather than as we imagine it to be seems a terribly simple idea yet it’s also the only idea worth the fuss the anxiety of influence  and all the messy rest a lesson hard won for Caden. Life is a dream but only for sleepers." the true the tough); it’s the self part that proves trickier. Among many many other things “Synecdoche New York” is about authenticity including the search for an authentic self in an inauthentic world. For Caden creating something that will justify the genius award which will quiet Adele’s mocking criticism and his own restless doubt becomes all-consuming. Inside a fantastically impossibly enormous warehouse he begins rehearsing with dozens and then hundreds thousands of actors directing them in separate lifelike vignettes. Ms. Williams’s Claire the adoring young woman who earlier played Willy Loman’s wife joins the new cast and soon marries Caden Adele having abandoned that role. (“I’m famous!” Adele blurts out to Caden on the phone from Berlin before hanging up.)" Frederick Elmes; edited by Robert Frazen; music by Jon Brion; production designer Mark Friedberg; produced by Anthony Bregman Mr. Kaufman Spike Jonze and Sidney Kimmel; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 2 hours 4 minutes." but everything else  falls to smithereens. Adele who smirks through the play and asks Caden why he’s wasting himself on other people’s work takes Olive to Berlin for a show that will make  the painter  a star. Caden stays behind worrying the sores that have sprouted on his body and watching a  pharmaceutical  commercial in which he appears to play a part. Is he delusional? Dreaming? Before you have time to reach for Freud’s “Interpretation of Dreams ” he wins a MacArthur Award a so-called genius grant and begins work on a monumental theater production. I want he tells his therapist with baleful sincerity to create something “big and true and tough. You know finally put my real self into something.”" but the poignancy of this exchange is that Caden who is so busy creating one world that he forgets to live in another doesn’t seem to really understand what it means either. Mr. Kaufman rarely stops to explain himself but like that simulacrum aside he continually hints at what he’s up to where he’s going and why. (Even Caden’s last name is a clue as to what ails him.) Mr. Kaufman is serious about seriousness but he’s also serious about being funny so he drops heavy weight (Kafka Dostoyevsky) lightly at times comically and keeps the jokes wordplay and sight gags coming amid the on- and offstage dramas divorces births calamities the fear and the sickness and the trembling." Samantha Morton (Hazel) Michelle Williams (Claire Keen) Catherine Keener (Adele Lack) Emily Watson (Tammy) Dianne Wiest (Ellen Bascomb/Millicent Weems) Jennifer Jason Leigh (Maria) Hope Davis (Madeleine Gravis) Sadie Goldstein (Olive 4 years old) and Tom Noonan (Sammy Barnathan)." Caden’s sweetest of sweethearts — so much more that you would need to recreate the film in its entirety to get it all in which is precisely Caden’s own tactic. Inside the warehouse he builds a replica of his world line by line actor by actor until fiction and nonfiction blur. Like the full-scale map in Borges’s short story  “On  Exactitude in Science ” the representation takes on the dimensions of reality to the point of replacing it. The French theorist Jean Baudrillard uses Borges’s story as a metaphor for his notion of the simulacrum which probably explains why Caden who has trouble naming things considers titling his production “Simulacrum.” I don’t even know what that means sighs Hazel." ” which is true even if those particular words were written by Arthur Miller who uses them to describe Willy Loman’s home. As it happens Caden is directing “Death of a Salesman ” but with a twist: the actors (including Michelle Williams) are all young. The tragedy of the play explains Caden will emerge from the casting: the audience will see the young actors and know that in time they will end up every bit as crushed as Willy. In “Salesman ” Miller writes that an air of the dream clings to Willy’s home “a dream rising out of reality.”  Mr. Kaufman doesn’t directly quote these words yet they hover over the film nonetheless." despite my agonizing self-consciousness:  “Synecdoche” is the story of a theater director Caden Cotard (Philip Seymour Hoffman exhaling despair with every breath) miserably married to a talented painter Adele Lack (Catherine Keener). The two live in Schenectady N.Y. with their 4-year-old Olive (Sadie Goldstein) who when the story opens is casually evacuating radioactive-green feces. Neither Caden nor Adele is alarmed so intensely are they wrapped up in a depressive melancholia they seem to have nurtured  longer than their daughter. Even couples therapy (with Hope Davis in a dazzling brief turn) brings out the worst in them. “Can I say something awful? ” Adele asks (as if she needed permission) before confessing  that she  fantasized  Caden dying. Which made her happy." New York” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for  grown-up words and female nudity." perhaps I should hit rewind: “Synecdoche New York” is the first film directed by the writer of such unlikely Hollywood entertainments as “Being John Malkovich ” “Adaptation”  and “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind ” a romance of such delicate feeling that it’s still a shock that it carries a studio brand. Mr. Kaufman’s kinked playful screenplays are usually accompanied by a flurry of “e” adjectives: eclectic eccentric edgy eggheady. (Also: quirky.) That’s true only if you consider the contemporary American screen with its talking Chihuahuas and  adult male babies with mother fixations. Come to think of it the main character in “Synecdoche” has a thing about poop and bosomy women though happily not at the same time." NEW YORK" New York” is one of the best films of the year or even one closest to my heart is such a pathetic response to its soaring ambition that I might as well pack it in right now. That at least would be an appropriate response to a film about failure about the struggle to make your mark in a world filled with people who are more gifted beautiful glamorous and desirable than the rest of us —  we who are crippled by narcissistic inadequacy yes of course but also by real horror by zits flab and the cancer that we know (we know!) is eating away at us and leaving us no choice but to lie down and die." 
6724
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24righ.html
the 12-year-old Oskar appears not quite of this world an alienation of body and spirit that causes him enormous pain but proves his salvation. The seemingly friendless only son of divorced emotionally remote parents he is also an outcast at school. The other children taunt him particularly a pint-size sadist who grows crueler the more Oskar retreats into himself. But there are few other places he can go which is how he ends up alone at night outside his apartment building thrusting a knife into a tree as if stabbing his tormentor. It’s an uneasy revenge fantasy that attracts the notice of a girl even paler than he is Eli (Lina Leandersson) an outcast of a deadlier kind." with English subtitles) by John Ajvide Lindqvist based on his novel of the same name; director of photography Hoyte van Hoytema; edited by Dino Jonsater and Mr. Alfredson; music by Johan Soderqvist; production designer Eva Noren; produced by John Nordling and Carl Molinder; released by Magnet Releasing. In Manhattan at the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village.  Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes." even if like the singer his movie smoothly and seemingly without effort works through a canny amalgamation of cool and hot diffidence and passion. (John Ajvide Lindqvist who adapted the screenplay from his horror novel openly borrowed the title from Morrissey a favorite.) The film’s cool  is largely expressed in visual terms in the enveloping snow the wintry light and the cinematographer Hoyte van Hoytema’s meticulously and steadily framed compositions. There is a remarkable stillness to many of the film’s most indelible images particularly the exteriors which are so carefully photographed and without the usual tiresome camera jiggling as to look almost frozen. It’s no wonder that pale pale little Oskar (Kare Hedebrant) looks so cold." Lina Leandersson (Eli) Per Ragnar (Hakan) Henrik Dahl (Erik) Karin Bergquist (Yvonne) and Peter Carlberg (Lacke)." as well as some knife work." though initially she seems more like a curse. Mr. Alfredson has an elevated sense of visual beauty but he  knows how to deliver the splattery goods. One of the earliest scenes features Eli’s guardian or slave (it’s never clear which) a defeated-looking middle-aged man named Hakan (Per Ragnar) headed into the night with a little black kit the contents of which — a knife a plastic container a funnel (ick) — are soon put to deadly use on a strung-up victim. The ensuing stream of red is all the more gruesome for being so matter-of-fact though the sudden and comical appearance of an inquisitive poodle quickly eased at least one violently churning stomach." and many more unsettling excuses to laugh. Yet while Mr. Alfredson takes a darkly amused attitude toward the little world he has fashioned with such care he also  takes  the morbid unhappiness of his young characters seriously. Both are achingly alone and it is the ordinary fact of their loneliness rather than their extraordinary circumstances that makes the film more than the sum of its chills and estimable technique. Eli seizes on Oskar immediately slipping her hand under his writing him notes becoming his protector baring her fangs. “Are you a vampire?” he asks tremulously at one point. Her answer may surprise you but it’s another of his questions — “Will you be my girlfriend?” — that  will floor you." a romantic fatalist who would surely appreciate this darkly perverse love story. “Let the right one in ” he sings in "Let the Right One Slip In." I’d say you were within your rights to bite/The right one and say ‘What kept you so long?’ ” These may sound like words to live by though  in the case of a film about a boy and the girl next door who may just be a vampire they could easily turn out to be words to die for.""he title of the spectrally beautiful Swedish vampire movie “Let the Right One In” comes from a song by Morrissey a romantic fatalist who would surely appreciate this darkly perverse love story. “Let the right one in ” he sings in "Let the Right One Slip In." I’d say you were within your rights to bite""e title of the spectrally beautiful Swedish vampire movie “Let the Righ" 
6725
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24zida.html
” dripping and pouring sweat inscrutably staring into space and the breathing cheering wall of humanity circling him and leaping and twisting into the air to guide the ball toward victory he will seem more expressively human less of an aesthetic conceit and more of a man than he does at the start of this self-described “21st Century Portrait.”" as well as clips of serious and trivial world events they rarely stray far from Zidane. He’s a perversely opaque subject for a talking-picture portrait in part because he doesn’t say much beyond the occasional tactical observation." the two used a large crew and 17 synchronized film and video cameras to track him  during an April 2005 match at a Madrid stadium between two Spanish teams Villareal and Real Madrid. (Zidane a midfielder was then playing for Real Madrid. The notorious head-butting took place in 2006 during the World Cup finals when he was back playing for France.) Over the course of the game the cameras captured what looks like Zidane’s every squint scratch sprint and hand gesture with claustrophobic intimacy and in long shots so distant they might have been taken from an aerie." though a subtitle provocatively cracks open a door to his consciousness. “The game the event is not necessarily experienced or remembered in ‘real time ’ ” he is quoted as saying sounding every inch the Frenchman. “My memories of games and events are fragmented.” In other words memory is montage an observation that suggests there may be more to this specific man in motion than his cubistic portrait reveals." Darius Khondji; edited by Hervé Schneid; music by Mogwai; produced by Joni Sighvatsson Anna-Lena Vaney and Victorien  Vaney; released by Katapult Films. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." sculptured calves and shaved head — you often don’t see what is happening elsewhere. This effectively makes him not just the subject of our attention but also a kind of mirror: we largely perceive the game through his expressions (his unmoving face beaky nose and hooded eyes give him the aspect of a hawk) and his far more animated movements. It’s worth noting that the male filmmakers avoid the athlete’s groin and rear which suggests that while Zidane is an object of desire (including as an athlete and celebrity) this desire has been carefully circumscribed. Zidane might not have cooperated otherwise." “Zidane” is a celebration of the body in motion and an acknowledgment of our pleasure in watching bodies in motion a pleasure the movies have been cultivating since Muybridge’s 19th-century locomotion studies. (The history of cinema is in a sense also a history of the modern body.) The movie’s close-ups demonstrate that Zidane’s body is more spectacular than most though notably he spends much of his time waiting and walking. The game unfolds in fits and starts with none of mainstream narrative’s orchestrated rhythms. For soccer fans the game is probably inherently suspenseful; for the rest of us suspense arises from our hope (expectation anticipation) that this body will cease waiting (like us) and starting moving (like a star)." 
6726
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24terr.html
obnoxious and generally unpleasant you can’t wait for them to start getting hacked to bits." Michael Soldier (Alex) Georgia Jean (Luella) Robert Borzych (Eric) Hilary Schwartz (Starr) Vinny Markus (Dom) Shannon Lee (Deborah) Noah Naylor (Manfred) and Derek Long (Mike)." they’re greeted by Helen (Mari Marks) the ghoulish proprietor and her physically stunted daughter Luella (Georgia Jean). Needless to say the free mincemeat muffins feature an unusually noxious special ingredient." the writer and director Jaymes Thompson spends the better part of 40 minutes introducing us to his ensemble of squabbling short-tempered gay and lesbian couples as they head into the desert for the annual “Blue Party” extravaganza." Joel Deutsch; edited by Andrew Van Baal; music by Swerve South; production designers Robert Frye and Noah Naylor; produced by Mr. Thompson and Sean Abley; released by Ariztical Entertainment. In Manhattan at Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 10 minutes. This film is not rated." Los Angeles San Francisco and Denver." “The Gay Bed & Breakfast of Terror” doesn’t go far enough in either direction. The only thing it has to spare is an inexplicably meanspirited view of its characters. Manfred (Noah Naylor) the deformed boy-monster who runs amok is understandably rude but why does everyone in this movie seem to hate one another so much?" 
6727
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24marr.html
“Saving Marriage” asks us to re-examine an institution  and a word  most of us take for granted. By the end we may feel that saying “I do” is no different than saying “I am.”" Mr. Roth; edited by Paula Gauthier; Music by Jamie Forsyth; released by Regent Releasing/Here! Films. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." defiantly partisan and exuberantly big-hearted movie “Saving Marriage” documents the Massachusetts imbroglio over same-sex unions with moving candor and unflagging spirits." Los Angeles San Francisco Denver and Boston." the immediate backlash soon coalesced into a proposed constitutional amendment to define marriage as exclusively heterosexual. Chronicling the battle to defeat that amendment the directors Mike Roth and John Henning intercut tense political skirmishes with the emotional journey of a young lesbian couple whose relationship has been profoundly affected by these events." the legal tussle is engrossing and sometimes revelatory; but it’s in the small personal moments that “Saving Marriage” breaks through. When the gay rights lobbyist Arline Isaacson frets that a lifetime of discrimination may have sapped the self-esteem necessary for her supporters to defeat the amendment or when the gay newly elected state representative Carl Sciortino balks at publicly hugging his male supporters the movie achieves a rare eloquence. The roots of puritanism run deep but they’re far from invisible." 
6728
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24hous.html
Haim Asias and Nurith Aviv; edited by Isabelle Ingold; produced by Mr. Gitai Michael Tapuach Laurent Truchot and Patrice Quinet; released by New Yorker Films. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art. In Arabic Hebrew English and French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." which are being shown Friday and Saturday." anywhere: People come and go lives change the neighborhood evolves. The difference here is that both Israelis and Palestinians have occupied this house over time." ” the third film in which he looks at people who have lived in a house in West Jerusalem over the decades." a neighbor a construction worker. They don’t have much to say that’s particularly profound but he lets them say it in long unedited stretches. He views the microcosm of the house as symbolic of diaspora and the continuing push-and-pull of life in that part of the world as he tells you in voice-overs." 
6729
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24hari.html
” a documentary by the filmmaker Christina Clausen is a loving if routine primer on this bright young man from Kutztown Pa. who moved to New York to study art and paint the town red. His legacy is resurrected through colorful archival footage and remembered by friends and admirers like the artists Kenny Scharf and Yoko Ono the gallery owners Jeffrey Deitch and Tony Shafrazi and the choreographer Bill T. Jones." and he had a seemingly inexhaustible supply of just the right energy: a radiant joyful enthusiasm that he shared with unflagging vitality first on the streets of New York and then on the world stage." whom he revered and later befriended Haring was the visual artist as social phenomenon connecting the gay scene to hip-hop Madonna to museum culture the democratic street to the rarefied art world. If his story is only marginal to the history of art it looms large in the cultural history of our time which Haring (who died of AIDS in 1990 at 31) saw far too little of." John C. Kelleran; edited by Silvia Giulietti; music by Angelo Talocci; theme song “The Artist Speaks ” by Junior Vasquez; produced by Paolo Bruno Eric Ellena and Ian Ayres; released by Arthouse Films. At Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6730
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24ben.html
” Nic Balthazar’s punishingly cacophonous debut (adapted from his own novel) about an autistic Flemish teenager and the bullies who torment him." Laura Verlinden (Scarlite) Marijke Pinoy (Mother) Pol Goossen (Father) Titus De Voogdt (Bogaert) and Maarten Claeyssens (Desmedt)." urgent monologue and wildly darting eyes Ben is a symphony of agonized alienation. Yet however representative of the chaos in his head the film’s relentlessly paranoid aesthetics come off more as a formal exercise in social dissonance than an empathetic study of human suffering." Lou Berghmans; edited by Philippe Ravoet; music by Praga Khan; production designer Kurt Loyens; released by Film Movement. At Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. In Flemish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. This film is not rated." “Ben X” crawls inside a troubled mind with more stylistic commitment than narrative competence. Ticklish issues of educational mainstreaming and cyber-bullying are ill served by an atmosphere of emotional sterility and visual hysteria and the film’s outlandish conclusion feels manufactured for the sensitivity module of teacher-training courses." school is a nightmare of peer cruelty and home — in the form of an insistently solicitous mother (Marijke Pinoy) and an absent hangdog father (Pol Goossen) — a vortex of parental frustration. To cope he escapes into an online fantasy universe where his heroic avatar spends hours immersed in a popular video game alongside a generously endowed virtual honey known as Scarlite (Laura Verlinden)." 
6731
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24sovi.html
who is Latvian and his backers (including some members of the European Parliament) obviously have an agenda though to the casual American viewer it may not be clear what it is." directed and edited by Edvins Snore; narrated by Jon Strickland; director of photography Edgars Daugavvanags; music by Extreme Music; produced by Kristaps Valdnieks; released by Perry Street Advisors. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." but that until Hitler’s invasion of the Soviet Union the two nations were allies sharing a similar view of the world. (A collage that juxtaposes Nazi propaganda posters with eerily similar Soviet ones is particularly effective.) And he brings his concerns into the present drawing connections to disturbing attitudes in modern Russia and asking why still-living participants in the Soviet mass murders have not been brought to justice." given that the subject is the murder of countless thousands in the Soviet Union under Stalin and the connections between Soviet leaders and those other proficient killers of the last century the Nazis." and it shows. He fills it with all sorts of assaultive exclamation points: deafening gunshot sound effects when executions by firearms are mentioned; blaring chapter breaks reminiscent of old  newsreels. The horrific images of mass graves and starvation victims that fill the movie need no such accompaniments." 
6732
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24prid.html
” which sat on the New Line Cinema shelves for a few years is not especially good but there is enough rough artistry in Mr. O’Connor’s direction to make you wish the film were better. He has a good sense of the city’s wearying exhilarating energy and an impressive ability to pull off arresting visual compositions in close quarters. Many of the indoor scenes have a raw dangerous intimacy that keeps your attention even when the dialogue tumbles toward cliché." unfortunately play to their weaknesses. Ray — an intellectual as well as a warrior; a gentle avenger with a troubled conscience; kind to children and tough on bad guys — brings out the full measure of Mr. Norton’s vanity by far his least appealing attribute. Mr. Farrell meanwhile once again indulges his blustery mixture of menace and charm overdoing both. He threatens a baby with a hot iron but on the other hand he loves his children. It seems  plausible that this guy would lead a thuggish criminal enterprise but not that he could keep it secret for more than 10 minutes." Frannie (Noah Emmerich) commands a rough precinct in Washington Heights. Frannie’s brother Ray (Edward Norton) once a hotshot detective has withdrawn a little from career and family making his home on a leaky boat and tending to a scar on his face. Frannie and Ray have a sister named Megan (Lake Bell) whose main function in this highly male-dominated movie is to be married to Jimmy Egan a hotheaded street cop whose hobbies include breeding smoking football and — since he’s played by Colin Farrell — jittery displays of misdirected intensity." while none too fresh — especially if you’ve already seen “We Own the Night” — has a certain rough potency. Written by Mr. O’Connor and Joe Carnahan (with story credits to Mr. O’Connor his brother Gregory and Robert Hopes a former New York City policeman) “Pride and Glory” relies a little too much on expository shouting but there are nonetheless some fine details and powerful tense scenes. The best stuff can be found around the edges of the main family drama in subplots and in the supporting performances of Shea Whigham and John Ortiz (as two of Jimmy’s minions) and Jennifer Ehle (as Frannie’s wife Abbie who is dying of cancer)." Colin Farrell (Jimmy Egan) Jon Voight (Francis Tierney Sr.) Noah Emmerich (Francis Tierney Jr.) Jennifer Ehle (Abby Tierney) John Ortiz (Ruben Santiago) Lake Bell (Megan Egan) and Shea Whigham (Kenny Dugan)." and most consequentially mixed up in some dirty illegal business. Right under Frannie’s nose he has assembled a squad of thugs and shakedown artists who work  with the city’s nastiest drug dealers. After four officers are killed during a raid gone bad Ray is persuaded by his dad to head up the investigation which leads him toward Jimmy and his crew and also leads to some breathless shouting matches." based on a story by Robert Hopes Gavin O’Connor and Gregory O’Connor; director of photography Declan Quinn; edited by Lisa Zeno Churgin and John Gilroy; music by Mark Isham; production designer Dan Leigh; produced by Gregory O’Connor; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 5 minutes." ” directed by Gavin O’Connor (“Tumbleweeds ” “Miracle”) plods across familiar ground. It’s yet another movie about the fraternal disorder of the police in which a gaggle of brothers professionally sworn to enforce the law and tribally committed to one another weep and rage and recriminate against a backdrop of urban chaos. Jon Voight  — his face as pink as a Christmas ham his acting in the same food group  — is the patriarch of this particular clan a New York Police Department chieftain named Francis Tierney." swearing drug references and a bit of pointless nudity." Mr. Emmerich’s Frannie is the sharpest. Even though Mr. O’Connor never fully dramatizes the bonds of loyalty love and envy that bind Jimmy Frannie and Ray Mr. Emmerich conveys the full nature of his character’s uneasy mix of decency and cowardice. While Mr. Voight Mr. Norton and Mr. Farrell do most of the screaming (and shooting) he quietly and guilelessly steals the movie. If only it were worth a little more." 
6733
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24noah.html
despite some drinking (with nary a hangover afterward) and a fling or two the prevailing mood isn’t campy or disco-decadent. Rather  the emphasis is squarely on heartfelt communication monogamy and child rearing: this group shares a prayer at the dining room table. Written and directed with restraint by the show’s creator Patrik-Ian Polk the film ends just as you’d expect: with vows of conjugal commitment." Christopher Porter; edited by Phillip J. Bartell; music by Adam S. Goldman and Julian Wass; production designer William Fleming; produced by Mr. Polk Suzanne L. Berger Carol Ann Shine and Lael McCall; released by Logo Features. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." managing the food and preparations; Chance (Doug Spearman) a work-obsessed professor accompanied by his neglected partner of four years Eddie (Jonathan Julian); the promiscuous Ricky (Christian Vincent) who secretly covets Noah; Brandon (Gary LeRoi Gray) a student of Chance’s who is dating Ricky and fretting about coming out to his family; and a closeted British rapper Baby Gat (Jason Steed). Given the Jacuzzi and two bachelor parties the occasion prompts a flurry of flirtations jealousies and amorous encounters." sexual situations and language." Rodney Chester (Alex) Doug Spearman (Chance) Christian Vincent (Ricky) Jensen Atwood (Wade) Jonathan Julian (Eddie) Gary LeRoi Gray (Brandon) and Jason Steed (Baby Gat)." ” which began on the Logo network in 2005 has yielded “Sex and the City” style its own feature: an agreeable melodrama unlikely to reach an audience beyond that of the show which concerns the lives of prosperous gay black men in Los Angeles. The movie taking place two years after events at the end of the second season follows the nuptials of the sensitive Noah (Darryl Stephens) and the cautious  Wade (Jensen Atwood) on Martha’s Vineyard." 
6734
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24john.html
Rowan Joseph Meredith Kendall and Shane Partlow." a bench lighting and sound effects — Mr. McKenzie enthusiastically delivers Joe’s extended monologue gliding between his reflections on memories of his family and girlfriend and his present realization that he has become the permanent prisoner of a hospital bed reduced to a freak-show remnant of the horrors of war." and even under the capable direction of Rowan Joseph Mr. McKenzie doesn’t provide enough spark to offset the problem. As his character battles to grasp his newly fractured sense of time audiences may also find themselves more aware of the time which seems to creep along at an alarmingly slow rate." based on the novel by Dalton Trumbo; director of photography Andrew K. Sachs; edited by Jay Cassidy; music by Michael D. Mortilla; produced by Mr. Joseph Lauri LaBeau Shane Partlow and Wesley Horton; released by Truly Indie. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 17 minutes. This film is not rated." eternally relevant 1939 antiwar novel “Johnny Got His Gun.” In the second screen version (the first released in 1971 was directed by Trumbo) Ben McKenzie (“Junebug ” television’s “O.C.”) gives it a go appearing “live on stage on film” as Joe Bonham a young World War I soldier who has been so severely injured that he is left with only the use of his mind." 
6735
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24hsm.html
Daniel Aranyo; edited by Don Brochu; music by David Lawrence; choreography by Mr. Ortega Charles Klapow and Bonnie Story; production designer Mark Hofeling; produced by Bill Borden and Barry Rosenbush; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is rated G." ” you may rest assured they wouldn’t know what you were talking about. The only things on their minds besides basketball and musical comedy are choosing a prom date and a college to attend. There are wistful moments but no sulky ones. The one lingering kiss is delicate." the third chapter of the phenomenally popular franchise crystallizes a moment in movie-musical history that is probably as evanescent as it is triumphant. If you recall all that hyperbolic talk in the ’80s about music videos spurring a full-scale revival of the movie musical  —  a revival that fizzled after “Footloose” and “Flashdance”  —  here it is (without  frantic MTV-style  editing). Or was. “High School Musical 4” has already been announced. But whether the franchise can continue after the major characters graduate is open to question. Quirky new characters are introduced. But are they stars?" “Now or Never ” East High’s Wildcats trounce their rivals to hip-hop beats and semi-rapped chants shouted by the cheerleaders and players alike." that is the burning question facing Troy who has been planning to accompany his best friend Chad Danforth (Corbin Bleu) to “U. of A. ” as it is  called and play basketball. But when the school’s fluty-voiced drama teacher Ms. Darbus (Alyson Reed) announces to Troy’s shock that he is one of four students being considered for a scholarship to Juilliard he is  thrown into a quandary. As he ponders his future the movie slips in an argument for musical theater as a more-than-O.K. activity for all-American guys; after all it is another sport." Vanessa Hudgens (Gabriella Montez) Ashley Tisdale (Sharpay Evans) Lucas Grabeel (Ryan Evans) Corbin Bleu (Chad Danforth) Monique Coleman (Taylor McKessie) and Alyson Reed (Ms. Darbus)." ” into a candy-colored never-never land that Peter Pan might envy." would you want it any other way? As its wholesome perpetual-motion machines leap tumble and whipsaw  through the halls and playgrounds of East High you want to leave the world behind and be one of them now and forever." angular writhing in the style   of “Cats ” break dancing and accelerated ballroom moves. (Mr. Efron does an impeccably suave waltz.) In one number Mr. Ortega even quotes his own choreography from Madonna’s “Material Girl” video. My favorite dance number is the triumphal title song performed on a playing field where the lines of dancers ripple like a human roller coaster." augmented  by the charisma of Zac Efron and Vanessa Hudgens as  the dewy-eyed puppy lovers Troy Bolton and Gabriella Montez. Mr. Efron’s athletic grace is Astaire-like in its casual authority. Ms. Hudgens’s blissful smiles melt the screen." you say. But what does it all mean?" the franchise’s unlikely setting comes from “Fame.” So does the craving for show business glory expressed in “I Want It All ” belted by the movie’s resident  not-so-nasty mean girl Sharpay (Ashley Tisdale) a teenager  so ambitious she would steal the scene off your back." whose auto junkyard anthem “The Boys Are Back ” echoes Thin Lizzy’s 1976 hit “The Boys Are Back in Town” filtered through Michael Jackson’s “Beat It ” and is frenziedly performed by a male chorus executing post-break-dance acrobatics on the hoods of rusted cars. The genre which might be described as sugarcoated bubblegum hip-hop may be disposable but it is extremely catchy and rhythmically elastic." 
6736
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/24/movies/24chan.html
” in what is perhaps the only lighthearted scene in this rigorously somber film Christine Collins the heroine is invited by some of her phone company co-workers and then by her boss to go out on the town and listen to the Academy Awards radio broadcast. The year is 1935 and “It Happened One Night” is Christine’s pick for best picture but it’s hard to avoid interpreting this moment as a none-too-subtle wink directed at present-day moviegoers and Academy voters. Christine begs off — she just has too much work — and it goes without saying that on Feb. 22 Angelina Jolie who plays her will have to make similar excuses. She won’t be watching the Oscars with the likes of us; we’ll be watching her." John Malkovich (the Rev. Gustav Briegleb) Jeffrey Donovan (Capt. J. J. Jones) Michael Kelly (Detective Lester Ybarra) Colm Feore (Chief James E. Davis) Jason Butler Harner (Gordon Northcott) Amy Ryan (Carol Dexter) Geoff Pierson (S. S. Hahn) Denis O’Hare (Dr. Jonathan Steele) Frank Wood (Ben Harris) Peter Gerety (Dr. Earl W. Tarr) Gattlin Griffith (Walter Collins) and Devon Conti (Arthur Hutchins)." near the climax of Christine’s ordeal another movie begins to take shape. The only decent man in the Los Angeles Police Department a detective named Lester Ybarra (the excellent blessedly understated Michael Kelly) begins to unravel the mystery of Walter’s disappearance.  And as he does “Changeling” itself comes unraveled. I don’t want to give too much away but the truth is that the film spoils itself." laurel-worthy acting than just about any other American filmmaker. There was Ken Watanabe in “Letters From Iwo Jima”; Ryan Philippe in “Flags of Our Fathers”; Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman (and Mr. Eastwood himself) in “Million Dollar Baby”; everybody in “Mystic River.” All of these actors taking advantage of the director’s famously efficient low-stress approach were able to stretch out in the zone between realism and melodrama to explore their characters’ raw nerves tender spots and psychic calluses." “Changeling” is a feverish and bluntly effective parable of wronged innocence and unaccountable power. One after another figures of supposedly benevolent authority — a police captain (Jeffrey Donovan) a pediatrician (Peter Gerety) a psychiatrist (Denis O’Hare) — turn out to be cruel and self-serving and there are scenes that recall the relentless claustrophobic sadism of “Rosemary’s Baby.” Unlike Mia Farrow’s histrionically helpless Rosemary however Christine has instincts that run more toward fight than flight and she is aided in her darkest hour by a crusading Presbyterian minister (John Malkovich) and a square-jawed patrician lawyer (Geoff Pierson)." masterly investigations of the implacability of evil and the difficulty of justice like “Unforgiven” or “Mystic River.” But while those themes are certainly present the director has not done much with them or succeeded in giving them dramatic shape or cinematic life. “Oscar-worthy” might turn out to be an accurate description of this baggy grandiose movie —  or at least of Ms. Jolie’s exhausting lead performance — but I’m afraid it would not be a compliment." Mr. Eastwood who composed the film’s uncharacteristically intrusive score orchestrates a steady crescendo of dread and indignation with gothic elements lurking in the shadows of Tom Stern’s cinematography. Some of the performances — Mr. Donovan’s snappish arrogance Mr. O’Hare’s cat-and-mouse sadism — seem overstated to the point of caricature but to the extent that “Changeling” is a horror movie such exaggeration makes sense." ” at any rate an ambition telegraphed a shade too blatantly in the many close-ups of Ms. Jolie’s extraordinary face which is by turns tear-streaked stoical crestfallen and howling. To watch her trace Christine’s harrowing emotional passage —  a series of flights from anxiety to terror from grief to rage pausing occasionally at calm defiance or tremulous hope —  is to witness an undeniable tour de force of screen acting. It insists on being regarded as a great performance and may indeed be mistaken for one." not only from her performance but also from the film as a whole. Announcing itself at the outset as “a true story” without the usual “based on” or “inspired by” hedge “Changeling” is by turns fascinating and frustrating emphatic and opaque. The truth about the case of Christine Collins is so shocking and dramatic that embellishment must have seemed pointless but in sticking so close to the historical record Mr. Straczynski and Mr. Eastwood have produced a distended awkward narrative whose strongest themes are lost in the murky pomp of period detail." all of the considerable tension and suspense drain away and if the film ended at that point you might walk away shaken and perhaps stunned. But when you look at your watch you   discover that almost an hour remains during which the film lurches from one stagy set piece  and from one genre to another losing its focus and coherence in the process. The pervasive overacting makes less and less sense and becomes more and more annoying. There are courtroom showdowns and grisly flashbacks prison house confrontations and further tearful reunions as a leering serial killer (Jason Butler Harner) supplants the Los Angeles Police Department as the main source of violent irrational depravity." Tom Stern; edited by Joel Cox and Gary D. Roach; music by Mr. Eastwood; production designer James J. Murakami; produced by Mr. Eastwood Brian Grazer Ron Howard and Robert Lorenz; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes." in contrast hurtles through “Changeling” as if it were the latest installment in the Lara Croft action franchise sustaining a pitch of intensity that turns Christine at once into a vivid icon of suffering and something of a blur. The character as imagined in J. Michael Straczynski’s script is as flat as a nickel. Each side is stamped with the likeness of a familiar movie archetype — victim of circumstance on one crusader against injustice on the other  — and Ms. Jolie composes her features and adjusts her voice accordingly when it comes time to flip." Christine a single mother living in Los Angeles returns home from her shift supervising a busy switchboard to find that her young son Walter (Gattlin Griffith) is missing. The initial response of the Los Angeles Police Department is casual and condescending which turns out to be a chilly foretaste of worse treatment to follow. After a few months with great fanfare and press coverage the city’s hatchet-faced police chief (Colm Feore) stages a reunion between Christine and a boy who is evidently not Walter. When Christine points this out she is treated first as a hysterical traumatized woman and then as a lunatic and a threat to public order. She is ignored smeared in the papers and then locked away in a mental hospital (where she meets Amy Ryan who is to this movie more or less what Ms. Jolie was to “Girl Interrupted”)." 
6737
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/22/movies/22stra.html
” the 1974 best seller by Piers Paul Read and retold in its 1993 screen adaptation starring Ethan Hawke why again? The short answer is that in “Stranded ” all 16 of the survivors now middle-aged tell the story in their own words. Since many of those words are eloquent the assumption must be that their thoughts and impressions are the distillate of years of contemplation." César Charlone and Pablo Hernán Zubizarreta; edited by Claudio Hughes Samuel Lajus and Alice Larry; music by Florencia Di Concilio-Perrin; produced by Marc Silvera; released by Zeitgeist Films. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas Greenwich Village. In Spanish with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 6 minutes. This film is not rated." one setback followed another. In the worst eight people died and many nearly suffocated in an avalanche that buried the plane’s fuselage where they had taken refuge improvising sleeping bags out of seats and cushions." they could hear on a radio that the air search for them was being abandoned because of bad weather. Their only hope  was to dispatch the hardiest on an expedition to scale the mountains and find civilization beyond the peaks ringing the Valley of Tears glacier in which the plane had crashed during a thunderstorm. One justification for the movie’s more-than-two-hour length seems to be its attempt to put us in the shoes of people who had a sense of being separated from the rest of humanity in an almost timeless state of suspended animation." a childhood friend of several of the survivors has filled out their recollections with dreamlike re-enactments shown in bluish black-and-white sequences in which faces and bodies are blurred as if observed through a blizzard." any lingering cynicism you might have harbored evaporates and you may find yourself on the verge of tears. Long after the film ends the words echo: “solidarity ” “sticking together ” “no laws just habits and practices accepted by the group.” Noble ones I might add." akin to those of returning astronauts who studied  Earth from outer space are worth hearing. Mortal terror is outweighed by an overwhelming sense of wonder and personal discovery as a ferocious will to live not only for themselves but for one another propels them to perform superhuman feats while exhausted and near starvation." the closest one to a group spokesman is Fernando Parrado a k a Nando who lost his sister and his mother in the crash. Carrying no equipment he and a fellow survivor Roberto Canessa hiked 44 miles over peaks more than 13 000 feet high until they discovered signs of civilization. Three days before Christmas they were spotted by a Chilean shepherd who remembers “They smelled of the grave; no animal would go near them.”" the 16 survivors out of 45 in a famous 1972 plane crash in the Andes that decimated a Uruguayan rugby team wouldn’t have made it through 72 days in a frigid wilderness with scant provisions." consuming the flesh of friends and loved ones who had died in the crash. Even when forced into doing “things that I don’t think any animal is capable of doing  —  eating its own species ” in the words of one survivor discipline and teamwork prevailed. The carving and eating of human flesh became a rite that more than one compares to taking Holy Communion. Although many words are devoted to evoking the spiritual implications of eating human flesh hardly any are given to describing the physical experience which is just as well." 
6738
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/22/movies/22fear.html
along with three others make up “Fear(s) of the Dark ” an animated anthology featuring six of today’s most talented graphic artists. Shot in luminous whites pulsing blacks and gorgeous grays the stories explore sexual insecurity rural superstition and sociopolitical anxieties with an inventiveness that’s seldom scary but never less than mesmerizing." the segments are bridged by Pierre di Sciullo’s dancing geometric shapes and the darkly comic progress of Christian Hincker’s aforementioned nobleman. In the hands of the amazing Mr. Hincker (who uses the pseudonym Blutch) a simple pencil takes on the qualities of a magic wand." drawn and directed by Blutch; Charles Burns; Marie Caillou and Romain Slocombe; Pierre di Sciullo; Lorenzo Mattotti and Jerry Kramsky; and Richard McGuire and Michel Pirus; released by IFC Films. In French with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. These films are not rated." again and again to nightmares of a violent past. A socially repressed young man discovers that girls are even more terrifying when they like you than when they don’t." Mr. McGuire presents a haunted-house scenario of jaw-dropping originality. Within his extreme manipulations of light and shade the sudden flare of a match has never seemed so welcome nor so dreadful." 
6739
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/20/movies/20wang.html
probably. It’s not clear how a film given away free can make money but for viewers the experience is not bad. Mr. Wang employed a wide-aspect ratio and if you blow the image up to full screen and select the high-quality-video option you can appreciate the cinematic qualities of his work which are emphasized by his incorporation of images captured on Sasha’s cellphone. Even with a big desktop monitor and a good pair of speakers or earphones it isn’t quite like going to the movies but the movie itself may benefit from the comparison since it would be easier to skip if you had to buy a ticket." “The Princess of Nebraska” follows a young Chinese woman who calls herself Sasha through an intense few days in San Francisco. To anyone who asks Sasha played by Ling Li says she wants “to see the city ” and Wayne Wang’s camera takes in its neighborhoods with unshowy affection. But there is a lot more going on than tourism." along with Sasha’s night tour of the immigrant demimonde in the Bay Area where she befriends prostitutes and thinks about joining their ranks is the stuff of Dreiserian melodrama. Mr. Wang a highly adaptable filmmaker whose movies swerve from the low-budget “Chan Is Missing” to the Jennifer Lopez vehicle “Maid in Manhattan ” prefers the stripped-down naturalism that has become a kind of default style for socially conscious international art cinema. Themes of globalization and political transformation are embedded in this anecdotal individual story occasionally popping to the surface in stilted unconvincing conversations. These moments of obviousness are balanced with an overall feeling of gritty lyricism and the result — interesting if not especially revelatory — is a film that would not seem out of place at a festival somewhere." who has spent the previous months as an exchange student in Omaha is pregnant from an encounter back home in Beijing. She has come to California to figure out what to do and to find Boshen (Brian Danforth) an American activist who had also in China been in love with Yang the mysterious opera student who is the father of Sasha’s child." having had its premiere there on Friday night. It may seem at first glance that bypassing theaters shows a lack of faith in the quality of the movie. But as of Sunday afternoon the film had attracted more than 140 000 views which is a larger audience than it would have found in a limited art-house release in New York and Los Angeles. (And the film is not notably worse than what you might see in those theaters.) Whether all those views reflect people watching until the end is hard to know but some of their reactions are collected in comments on the site ranging from thoughtful analyses to “THIS HAS NOTHING AT ALL TO DO WITH NEBRASKA.”" 
6740
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17ston.html
Phedon Papamichael; edited by Julie Monroe; music by Paul Cantelon; production designer Derek Hill; produced by Bill Block Eric Kopeloff Paul Hanson and Moritz Borman; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 2 hours 9 minutes." often better than fine though it’s hard not to wish that Mr. Stone had put history into more dynamic play with politics and ideology and given the Big Daddy Bush thing a bit of a rest. Mr. Cromwell does a nice job imitating a block of wood but there are only so many ways to voice patrician displeasure. Because the film spends so much time on the pre-presidential younger Bush — first glimpsed marinating in vodka in 1966 — and ends sometime in 2004 more than a year into Iraq it can’t help feeling like a prologue to a more involved story. At a compressed 129 minutes it only gestures in some directions (Sept. 11) though Mr. Dreyfuss’s impersonation of Mr. Cheney pulling a Dr. Strangelove speaks volumes encyclopedias." and while Mr. Stone overuses it returning Bush to his er field of dreams once too often it works to underscore the film’s ideas about life political and otherwise as a performance. In the story Bush burns through one job and identity after another — partying student imperfect son indifferent oilman serial flirt attentive husband sports guy born-again Christian newly born politician — before taking on the role of a lifetime." though he goes easier on Mr. Bush on screen than some of his off-screen remarks suggest. In a recent televised schmooze session with Larry King Mr. Stone characterized the real 40-year-old Mr. Bush as “a bum.”  But the movie shows him more as a boozing womanizer a spoiled son of power and privilege — James Cromwell plays George H. W. Bush and Ellen Burstyn does a comically mean Barbara Bush — who swaddled in privilege and hurting for love (a familiar Stone fixation) doesn’t stick with a single book job or woman. That all changes with Jesus Christ and a little lady named Laura (Elizabeth Banks) twinned epiphanies who steer him down the path of righteousness and over to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue." Mr. Stone’s darker more ambitious excursions into the American psyche and presidency partly because I think he does not yet have enough aesthetic distance from his subject and partly because he seems keen to weigh in as more evenhanded than usual. But while he has tamped down his style he retains a pleasingly fluid approach to narrative. The story repeatedly shifts between scenes of the younger Bush meandering through his life and the older Bush navigating through the early stages of the Iraq war. This shuttling across time and space undercuts the drama — the story doesn’t so much build as restlessly circle back — but it puts into visual terms Mr. Stone’s ideas about the present and past being mutually implicated." though I’m glad wrung out by off-screen reality that he doesn’t stay there long. In “W.” he doesn’t need to haul out the dead or excavate the depths to keep us hooked: he just needs to show Condoleezza Rice (Thandie Newton) tightly smiling while Bush rants; Donald Rumsfeld (Scott Glenn) flaunting his contempt for presidential power by savoring a piece of pie — Bush has given up sweets to show support for the troops — and Barbara Bush snapping her fingers at the family dog as if calling for its head. The pleasure of Mr. Stone’s work has never been located in restraint but in excess a commitment to extremes that can drown out the world or as in this film give it newly vivid hilarious and horrible form." as comic as it is sincere is bound to rile ax-grinders of every ideological stripe particularly those who mistake fiction for nonfiction. History informs its narrative arc from Texas to Iraq but it should go without saying that this is a work of imagination a directorial riff on real people and places complete with emotion-tweaking music cues slo-mo visuals and portentous symbolism. It says nothing new or insightful about the president his triumphs and calamities. (As if anyone goes to an Oliver Stone movie for a reality check.) But it does something most journalism and even documentaries can’t or won’t do: it reminds us what a long strange trip it’s been to the Bush White House." Elizabeth Banks (Laura Bush) Ellen Burstyn (Barbara Bush) James Cromwell (George H. W. Bush) Richard Dreyfuss (Dick Cheney) Scott Glenn (Donald Rumsfeld) Toby Jones (Karl Rove) Stacy Keach (Earle Hudd) Bruce McGill (George Tenet) Thandie Newton (Condoleezza  Rice) and Jeffrey Wright (Colin Powell)." ” his Oedipal story about the rise and fall fall fall of George W. Bush is: why? Neither a pure (nor impure) sendup of the president nor a wholesale takedown the film looks like a traditional biopic with all the usual trappings including name actors in political drag — Josh Brolin plays the frat boy who would be king while Richard Dreyfuss creeps around in a Dick Cheney sneer — alternately choking on pretzels and spleen and reciting all the familiar lines and lies. History is said to repeat itself as tragedy and farce but here it registers as a full-blown burlesque." but it’s a necessarily incomplete performance because like all the major White House Players his character looms too large in our lives for him to fully possess. It can be disconcerting when actors play historical figures and it’s infinitely stranger  when those figures aren’t obscured by time. But it’s one thing to watch Paul Giamatti scowling about in a presidential wig as he did in the recent HBO mini-series “John Adams.” It’s something entirely different to watch Mr. Brolin sloppily downing drinks in a pantomime of the current president’s younger self a figure that doesn’t belong to history but to the present and by extension to us. Good as he is he can’t touch the original." it leans more toward comedy than toward tragedy a crucial exception being the graphic images of wounded and dead Iraqis and American soldiers that Mr. Stone drops late into the film and that  stuff the laughs right back down your throat. This may be a comedy of errors Mr. Stone seems to be saying but it’s a murderously costly one. The intrusion of real horror is bluntly effective though there is something at once morally and structurally suspect about the use of such images in any fiction entertainment no matter how high-minded and well intended. It’s not just that the dead can’t argue against their commercial exploitation but Mr. Stone can’t get to where I think he’s trying to go — deep — without them." 
6741
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17tru.html
Howard Wexler; edited by David Avallone; music by Barry Coffing; production designer James J. Agazzi; produced by Antonio Brown Mr. Wade and Mr. Avallone; released by Regent Releasing/Here! Films. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." living up to her righteous name establishes a gay-straight alliance at school where assorted bi-curious types mingle along with an actual gay named Walter (Tye Olson) and the superhot suspiciously stylish but only apparently gay Trevor (Jake Abel)." one white (Alexandra Paul) both lesbians — and they’re all living happily ever after. Or were at least until they left San Francisco." Tru is suddenly confronted with a local phenomenon as unfamiliar as year-round sunshine: homophobia in her high school. She starts a relationship with Lodell (Matthew Thompson) the handsome high school quarterback who turns out to be whaddya know a gay man on the down low. To shield Lodell from his bigoted peers or at least his own ego issues Tru grudgingly agrees to be his beard." Matthew Thompson (Lodell) Tye Olson (Walter) Jake Abel (Trevor) Alexandra Paul (Leslie) Cynda Williams (Lisa) Nichelle Nichols (Lo’s Grandmother) Jasmine Guy (Cynthia) Alec Mapa (Mr. Bushnell) Bruce Vilanch (Daniel) and Jane Lynch (Ms. Maple)." progressive love? And more important does the world need yet another peppy  gay self-esteem indie like “Tru Loved”? Probably not though the writer and director Stewart Wade pulls this one off with heart." 
6742
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17mary.html
based on a story by Mr. Ferrara Mario Isabella and Simone Lageoles; director of photography Stefano Falivene; edited by Patrizio Marone Adam Mcclelland Fabio Nunziata Langdon Page and Julia Ruell; music by Francis Kuipers; production designer Frank DeCurtis; produced by Roberto De Nigris David Hausen and Fernando Sulichin. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated." which are due both to work and to his affair with an actress who is a friend of Marie’s. But when Elizabeth prematurely gives birth to a very sick baby in hospital scenes filmed like a horror movie Ted suffers his own spiritual meltdown. In an excruciatingly embarrassing monologue Mr. Whitaker collapses into a quaking mass of tear-stained guilt and begs God for punishment." ” we are not shown why the prospect of its release has ignited worldwide protests unless word has circulated that it  might well be the worst movie ever made.  We see Jewish groups protesting the movie’s alleged portrayal of Jews as Christ killers but the inflammatory evidence is withheld." Ted Younger (Forest Whitaker) a network talk-show host  whose whiny nagging wife Elizabeth (Heather Graham) is eight months pregnant is working on an interview series about Jesus in which theologians and scholars theorize about the roots of Christianity. One guest talks about rejected books from the New Testament that portray Mary Magdalene not as a prostitute but as a disciple of Jesus who was as important as Peter." ” which opens Friday in New York without a distributor three years after it was shown in the Venice Film Festival is a weepy slab of overheated Gothic kitsch that shamelessly piggybacks on Mel Gibson’s “Passion of the Christ” and the controversy it engendered. Steeped in candlelight with leaping shadows and ominous rumbles it also conjures garish memories of “The Exorcist” sequels and the heavy-breathing nonsense of “The Da Vinci Code.”" a cynical hipster writer-director (and stand-in for both Mr. Gibson and Mr. Ferrara) who has the audacity to star as Jesus in his own about-to-be-released billion-dollar baby (or so he hopes) “This Is My Blood.” Flogging his project on television he boasts “It’s all about love baby!”" “This Is My Blood” has already driven one of its cast members around the bend. An extremely agitated Marie Palesi (Juliette Binoche) its Mary Magdalene abandons her acting career and flees to Jerusalem on a spiritual pilgrimage. In the movie within a movie Ms. Binoche is lighted like the Mona Lisa and wears a Mona Lisa smile." ” a convoluted hysterical mess of a movie with grandiose spiritual airs and not a drop of humor." Forest Whitaker (Ted Younger) Matthew Modine (Tony Childress/Jesus) and Heather Graham (Elizabeth Younger)." 
6743
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17ligh.html
happy faces “Morning Light” is sunny-side-up filmmaking that sacrifices dramatic focus for generic observations on teamwork and character building. The writer and director Mark Monroe could have shaped his adventurous material in any number of ways to engage nonsailors including highlighting gender issues (an intriguingly chauvinistic conversation conducted in the absence of the crew’s sole female member is abruptly cut short) or exploring the feelings of the four rejectees." ” a sweepingly beautiful documentary unmoored by democratic intentions 15 amateur sailors prepare to cross more than 2 000 miles of Pacific Ocean in the race known as the Transpac." relentlessly upbeat personality. Like the disastrously overpopulated “Amazing Race: Family Edition ” “Morning Light” never finds a way to make us care who wins." the biennial Transpac is a grueling exhilarating haul from Los Angeles to Honolulu and a daunting prospect for novices. Ranging in age from 18 to 23 and with varying degrees of experience the 15 hopefuls — who will eventually be winnowed to a crew of 11 for the sloop Morning Light — endure months of rigorous training soggy sleeping quarters and lots of throwing up. They couldn’t be more thrilled." based on an idea by Thomas J. Pollack; directors of photography Josef Nalevansky and Richard Deppe; edited by Paul Crowder; music by Matter; produced by Mr. Disney and Morgan Sackett; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." 
6744
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17good.html
so weird; yet “Good Dick” surmounts its indie-movie quirkiness with exceptional acting and a sincere belief in the salvation of its wounded characters. Funny abrasive and oddly innocent (the story’s sadomasochistic undercurrents never completely surface) this barbed standoff between longing and denial is sweetened by Mr. Ritter’s dogged charm and Ms. Palka’s touching resistance. Doesn’t she know that any guy who can appreciate the oeuvre of Annie Sprinkle is a keeper?" who also wrote the script and directed) is a compulsive masturbator with a preference for cheesy ’80s pornography. (She gets her kicks the old-fashioned way: on VHS.) He (Jason Ritter) is the sweet-natured video store employee who supplies the tapes along with unwelcome critiques of her titillative choices." ” opines one of the three philosopher-clerks who share his work space and the task of grounding the movie. Undeterred our hero follows his skittish crush to her spacious apartment where she grudgingly permits him to remove her trash cook her meals and wash her hair. In return she screams abuse and insists that he refrain from touching or talking." Jason Ritter (Video Clerk) Eric Edelstein (Eric) Martin Starr (Simon) and Mark Webber (Derek)." Andre Lascaris; edited by Christopher Kroll; music by Jared Nelson Smith; production designer Andrew Trosmans; produced by Jennifer Dubin Cora Olson Ms. Palka and Jason Ritter; released by Morning Knight and Present Pictures. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes." ” a perverse romantic comedy whose coarse title belies its tender heart." 
6745
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17elep.html
his depressed introverted brother has joined Jake in Chiang Mai and quickly comes alive to the slacker expat lifestyle. You know you’re in for a cautionary tale when two fun-loving dudes buy a baby elephant  on a drunken whim install him by a motel pool full of empty beer bottles and show only mild concern when the dung starts piling up." Diego Quemada-Diez; edited by Saar Klein Lee Chatametikool and Inbal B. Lessner; music by Adam Balazs; production designer Lee Yaniv; produced by Emanuel Michael Tamar Sela and Tom Waller; released by Unison Films. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." ” but his keepers are far from royal. Some time ago a scruffy bon vivant named Jake (Jonno Roberts) bilked his university for a travel grant to Thailand and now he runs around spending the money on booze drugs women and a shabby crash pad." but the more compelling female perspective belongs to Lek (Florence Faivre) a beautiful bartender whose involvement with the brothers leads to trouble in paradise — or what passes for it in their bleary naïve eyes." Tate Ellington (Oliver Hunt) Florence Faivre (Lek) Jonno Roberts (Jake Hunt) Josef Sommer (Bill Hunt) and Debra Azar (Linda)." “The Elephant King” tells a colorful if conventional tale of dysfunctional Americans abroad. The misadventures of Jake and Oliver play off against the conflicted sympathies of the locals who simultaneously resent enjoy prosper from and exploit the tourist scene." 
6746
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17azur.html
Nigel Pilkington (Asmar) Suzanna Nour (Jenane) Nigel Lambert (Crapoux) Leopold Benedict (Azur as a Child) and Frederick Benedict (Asmar as a Child)." the story opens in the childhood of two young boys whose fates will diverge and then reunite in the realms of magic and adventure. Asmar an impetuous dark-featured youth sits with his best friend Azur a blue-eyed prince as they marvel at songs of the Djinn Fairy a legendary creature locked away in sadness beyond enchanted doors and guardian monsters." ” an animated fable by the French filmmaker Michel Ocelot unfolds in a flat storybook style worlds away from the sculptured digital aesthetic pioneered by Pixar and emulated by everyone else. But flat in this case is beautiful. Despite a stiffness of movement that suggests an upscale take on the cutout animation of “South Park ” the movie has a terrific flair for arabesque patterning a gemlike luminosity of surface and a handsome classical cast of mind." he is separated from his lowborn companion to be groomed for princely affairs but the memories of the Djinn Fairy never go away. And so begins a quest for magic keys spells of safety and a route to the mystic mountain where lies a spirit to be released and a friendship to be reconciled." 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." 
6747
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17what.html
cynical humor is intended as evidence of its satirical bona fides. Its knowing understated mockery of movie-business business as usual is also a badge of authenticity. “What Just Happened ” populated by finely etched caricatures of anxious agents preening directors and tantrum-prone stars (including Bruce Willis playing himself with a beard) knows what it’s about but this may not be such an impressive achievement." “What Just Happened ” is not phrased as a question but if it were it would demand another question in response: “Who cares?” I’m asking in earnest. Who exactly do Mr. Levinson and the screenwriter Art Linson expect to invest time and interest — to say nothing of thought or feeling — in this meandering passive-aggressive comedy of Hollywood inconsequence?" maybe not so ardently. To come back to the question I began with the most striking (and perhaps the most revealing) aspect of “What Just Happened” is its lack of conviction. Its point — that the daily personal and professional habits of the Hollywood elite are silly and solipsistic — is easy enough to grasp and to accept. But true satire works correctively and by antithesis arriving at an implication of virtue through the faithful representation of vice." ” for all the trompe-l’oeil accuracy of its situations and locations serves up far too many warmed-over morsels of humor: the Hollywood funeral where expressions of grief take second place to schmoozing and BlackBerrying; the preening unstable British auteur (Michael Wincott following in the footsteps of Steve Coogan and Richard E. Grant); the icy studio boss; the lunches and test screenings and meetings and awkward social encounters. We’ve seen all of this before — though maybe not with Bruce Willis in a yarmulke — and I suspect that only someone who lived in or near this world would want to see it all again." at this point a little empty and ritualistic. Mr. De Niro his brows knit somewhere between irritation and sincere concern his face roughened by silvery stubble is fun to watch. He’s such a nimble subtle comedian when he wants to be that you can only wish he wanted to be more often." animating everything from “Entourage” and “Curb Your Enthusiasm” to “Tropic Thunder.” It is now routine for movie-world insiders to send up their own vanity and self-absorption by reproducing it with just enough exaggeration to make the rest of us feel like insiders too." Catherine Keener (Lou Tarnow) Sean Penn (Sean Penn) John Turturro (Dick Bell) Michael Wincott (Jeremy Brunell) Robin Wright Penn (Kelly) Kristen Stewart (Zoe) Stanley Tucci (Scott Solomon) and Bruce Willis (Actor)." drugs swearing." it is not enough to expose shallowness and duplicity unless you have some notion of what depth or honesty might look like. And this movie fails to be as funny as it should be because it has no idea of what to take seriously. Setting out to skewer the triviality of the movie business Mr. Levinson and Mr. Linson have made a trivial movie. Which may only be to say that “What Just Happened” fulfills its ambitions perfectly." after all is a veteran not only of Hollywood but of Hollywood satire (“Wag the Dog”) and Mr. Linson has had a long eclectic career as a producer with credits including “Car Wash ” “The Untouchables” and “Fight Club.” If the two of them can’t make a realistic movie about moviemaking who can? And surely the members of the cast which includes Catherine Keener (as a studio boss) John Turturro (as an agent) Robin Wright Penn (as an ex-wife) and Sean Penn (as himself with a moustache) have ample first-hand knowledge of the ecosystem whose colorful species they lampoon." based on his book “What Just Happened?: Bitter Hollywood Tales From the Front Line”; director of photography Stéphane Fontaine; edited by Hank Corwin; music by Marcelo Zarvos; production designer Stefania Cella; produced by Robert De Niro Mr. Linson Jane Rosenthal and Mr. Levinson; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." a fondness for filming Los Angeles neighborhoods and Cannes hotels through the windows of moving cars and a salutary appreciation of the efforts of a handful of first-rate actors. As it follows Ben a harried movie producer played by Robert De Niro through his complicated routines “What Just Happened” achieves a tone of shrugging studious detachment." ex-wives and awkward meetings muttering into his hands-free cellphone earpiece he proves that narcissism loves company. And Mr. De Niro mixing it up with his co-stars — with Mr. Turturro at a nail salon; with Mr. Willis on set; with Ms. Wright Penn in what Ben calls his “ex-bed” — he strikes a few sparks of genuine comic insight." 
6748
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17thin.html
” says one son of his mother’s painting. Perhaps he’ll watch this movie and understand." Nancy Kennedy and Will Dunning; director of photography Gary Henoch; edited by Ms. Kennedy; music by John McDowell; produced by Mr. Dunning and Michelle Seligson; released by Artistic License Films. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes. This film is not rated." “Who Does She Think She Is?” is about answering the call to self-expression in the face of biological imperatives and cultural programming. The Guerrilla Girls and other feminists appear for an enlightening primer on sexism in the art world while the artist Larry Bell inadvertently backs them up by recalling his long-ago decision to mentor Ms. Torres when she appeared as “a cute girl in shorts and halter top” at his front door." ” an engaging documentary about the struggle to create art while nurturing life." whose mountain home in New Mexico overflows with her paintings and sculptures this has meant divorce guilt and feeding her three sons on $24 000 a year. Janis Wunderlich on the other hand seems cheerfully adept at managing five children a husband and a successful career as a sculptor. Only when we examine her fantastical disturbing figures — often with rabbit ears and tiny toothy creatures swarming over them — do we see explicit evidence of her internal conflict." 
6749
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17payn.html
” a somber stylized new action movie derived from a video game." Jonathan Sela; edited by Dan Zimmerman; music by Marco Beltrami and Buck Sanders; production designer Daniel T. Dorrance; produced by Mr. Moore Julie Yorn and Scott Faye; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." and would in any case slow down the movie’s rhythm. Max’s righteous anger finds various allies and targets though it is not always clear who is which. They are played by Mila Kunis Beau Bridges and Ludacris with just enough panache and expressiveness to uphold the (increasingly irrelevant) distinction between a movie and a video game." a solo shooter moving through hallways alleys and empty rooms is a figure handed down from movies to video games and nowadays increasingly handed back. Mr. Moore does a fairly good job of adapting the cinematic aspects of first-person shooter games back into cinema and in devising a coherent color scheme and sound design for Max’s escapades." ” directed by John Moore from a script by Beau Thorne a measure of integrity. It’s not an especially good movie but such a judgment is not really relevant to its ambitions. It is content to be an efficient vehicle for the delivery of a familiar range of sensations some of which almost rise to the level of feelings. Though a sexy woman in a skimpy dress (next-wave Bond Girl Olga Kurylenko) shows up to tempt Max lust is not really on the menu. Instead the film’s momentum is derived from the grim ruthless self-pity of the lone avenger." Mila Kunis (Mona Sax) Beau Bridges (B. B. Hensley) Ludacris (Jim Bravura) Olga Kurylenko (Natasha) Amaury Nolasco (Jack Lupino) and Chris O’Donnell (Jason Colvin)." the swearing avoids the really bad words and when Ms. Kurylenko is topless she is filmed from the back." and they all seemed to be hooked on a blue liquid developed by a pharmaceutical company where the hero’s wife worked before she was murdered along with their child by some people with wings tattooed on their arms. The weather in New York alternated between fluttering snow and driving rain and every time someone fired  a gun the images slowed down and the sound mix cleared out so you  could hear the plink of a bullet casing as it  hit the ground. Meanwhile Max Payne (Mark Wahlberg) is an action hero so melancholy that he can’t even muster a quotable catchphrase." 
6750
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17flas.html
this wispy melodrama has attracted stalwart supporting players not least the great Miriam Karlin so taken with her role as a curmudgeonly neighbor that she agreed to remove her teeth. Now that’s what I would call foolish." ” says his long-suffering black maid (Eve) grumpily straightening his Malibu mansion. She should know that the first indicator of private pain is always an exorbitant phone-sex bill." Harry Eden (Young Joe Scot) Olivia Williams (Grace) Helen McCrory (Peggy Tickell) Eve (Ophelia Franklin) Jodhi May (Evelyn Adams) Miriam Karlin (Mrs. Rogers) Claire Forlani (Ruth Davies) Felicity Jones (Young Ruth Davies) and Keeley Hawes (Jesse Scot)." it’s unlikely that “Flashbacks of a Fool” would have appeared anywhere except the Netflix queues of his most rabid fans." Joe withdraws into gauzy memories of teenage sexual awakening at the hands of a married neighbor. In this ’70s idyll young Joe (Harry Eden) will learn that sex equals tragedy and that a glam-rock soundtrack enhances even the stickiest screenplay. Though Lou Reed would probably be dismayed to see the cover of his “Transformer” album employed with such shocking lack of finesse." the writer and director Baillie Walsh seeks to maximize his star’s brief appearances by giving nudity precedence over dialogue. Consequently Mr. Craig’s performance as Joe Scot a British movie star curling up at the edges from cocaine and hookers seems even more recessive than usual." John Mathieson; edited by Struan Clay; music by Richard Hartley; production designer Laurence Dorman; produced by Lene Bausager Damon Bryant Genevieve Hofmeyr and Claus Clausen; released by Anchor Bay Entertainment. In Manhattan at Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 2 hours. This film is not rated." 
6751
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17filt.html
though you might fervently wish that she were if not for the playful Mr. Hutz who whether loping through London or ogling the camera lightens this otherwise heavy endeavor.  Seriousness per se isn’t the problem (never is); the problem is the air of self-consciousness about being serious (or being taken as such) a tendency that has plagued Madonna’s own acting ever since her breezy 1985 breakout in “Desperately Seeking Susan.” That self-consciousness weighs on “Filth and Wisdom ” creating moments that are as cringe-inducing — Richard E. Grant as a professionally sensitive blind poet pulling books off his shelves in a rage — as the ill-advised director’s statement in which she name-drops Jean-Luc Godard Pier Paolo Pasolini and Luchino Visconti." better Visconti than most. “Filth and Wisdom” is a ridiculously easy target but it also creaks and strains with more ambition than most mainstream throwaways that just recycle the usual guns and poses. Not that Madonna has gone in for originality which isn’t really her thing: rather instead of repurposing a genre she has riffled through the art-house catalog for inspiration as evidenced by the film’s intentionally grubby visual texture jumpy editing direct-address commentary freeze frames and other tricks. Although the somewhat rough visual style doesn’t feel especially organic or natural for a director who has built a slick international brand with mind-blowing calculation it does keep you interested from scene to scene which is a more generous compliment than it might seem." ” a tale of bumping and grinding your way to happiness from the hardest-working hard body in show business that precision sex-and-beat machine turned first-time movie director known as Madonna. Set in London the loosely threaded 84-minute story written by the Big M and Dan Cadan (a former crew member for her soon-to-be ex Guy Ritchie) involves three roomies who are peddling body and soul in order to follow their different dreams all of which should sound familiar to the Madonna faithful: music dance and ... saving impoverished African children." Madonna never appears on camera (two of her songs get a workout) letting the low-profile cast go through the motions and emotions for her. First and foremost is A. K. (Eugene Hutz of the self-styled Gypsy punk band Gogol Bordello) a Ukrainian musician who earns his keep British style by punishing naughty (adult) boys and dressing up in women’s clothing. A charismatic string bean adorned with gold hoop earrings and a kitten-sized mustache A. K. shares a flat with Holly (Holly Weston) a ballerina with no discernable personality and Juliette (Vicky McClure) a pharmacist’s aide whose obsession with African children leads to the worst line (and idea) in a movie this year: “She don’t know she’s starving too ” explains A. K." who remains oblivious until she learns to love herself or something by becoming a pole dancer at a men’s club. Juliette learns something else though I’m not sure what partly by ducking and then embracing her infatuated boss Sardeep (Inder Manocha) an Indian immigrant with a noisy brood and a jealous wife (Shobu Kapoor).  Madonna spices up these human ingredients and others with light bondage and grave affirmations (there’s even some marital advice) and while her movie meanders hither and yon it all works out because life is a giant virgin-whore paradox and filth leads to wisdom and wisdom leads to filth and Gogol Bordello leads to a merry blowout with horn blasts and yelps." 
6752
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17driv.html
” an aggressively puerile fitfully amusing and sluggish teenage sex comedy is that it reserves all its creativity for ways to revolt and ostensibly delight its target audience. Highlights/low points: clubbing borderline road kill to death; super-kinky super-icky sex; a geriatric flasher." who with John Morris adapted it from a young-adult novel by Andy Behrens. Mr. Anders doesn’t do much with the camera although the cinematographer Tim Orr who has shot all of David Gordon Green’s features certainly knows how to throw pretty light on a scene. Mr. Anders doesn’t have the flair or perhaps the heart for gross-out comedy with timing that tends to lose the beat midjoke. But despite the usual crass exploitation of young female flesh he does generally right by his cast. The sweetheart leads Josh Zuckerman and Amanda Crew are easy to spend time with and Seth Green as an Amish hipster and Clark Duke as an unlikely lady-killer hit every sweet-and-sardonic note with panache." raunchy language partial male nudity and many bared female breasts." Amanda Crew (Felicia) Clark Duke (Lance) Seth Green (Ezekiel) and James Marsden (Rex)." an online hookup a road trip) as are the backdrops (the mall suburbia); the central conceit (the hero wants sex but gee whiz Andy Hardy what he really wants is love); the character dynamics (triangular); the repartee (“dude”); the hormonally charged desperation (tasteless sight-gag alert); and the cast composition (many young B-  and C-listers). The probable inspirations include “Fast Times at Ridgemont High ” the “American Pie” movies “The Sure Thing ” the documentary “Devil’s Playground” and every project Judd Apatow has ever breathed on. From the looks of the cherry GTO Judge that rumbles through the story someone here has watched the Monte Hellman classic “Two-Lane Blacktop.”" based on the book “All the Way” by Andy Behrens; director of photography Tim Orr; edited by George Folsey Jr.; music by Stephen Trask; production designer Aaron Osborne; produced by Leslie Morgenstein Bob Levy and Mr. Morris; released by Summit Entertainment and Alloy Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." 
6753
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17bigf.html
but that isn’t really the aim of this documentary directed by Jay Delaney also an Ohioan. Like its subjects “Not Your Typical Bigfoot Movie” has a modest down-home feel: it’s not flashy or even visually pleasing its pace is leisurely and its intent unfocused." the film’s main emphasis is on depicting the everyday lives of regular financially struggling folk who just happen to have an unusual hobby." Dallas Gilbert and Wayne Burton might seem more likely to shoot hairy beasts with rifles than with cameras but once we’re better acquainted with their personalities and beliefs  including the notion that Bigfoots are more enlightened beings than humans  their mission becomes almost touching." now fading steel town of Portsmouth Ohio two friends both dedicated family men getting on in years apparently share a talent for spotting the apelike creature most popularly known as Bigfoot and a passion for verifying its existence." directed and edited by Jay Delaney; director of photography Shane Allen Davis; music by Justin Riley and Ben Colburn; released by Oscilloscope Pictures. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 3 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6754
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/movies/17bees.html
who dreams of being a writer and keeps a box of keepsakes buried in the orchard behind her house runs away with Rosaleen (Jennifer Hudson) a black employee of T. Ray’s who has been beaten and jailed for trying to register to vote. The two of them find their way to an upcountry town called Tiburon where they are taken in by three beekeeping sisters named August (Queen Latifah) June (Alicia Keys) and May (Sophie Okonedo)." and Queen Latifah’s shrewd refusal to play her character according to stereotype the film becomes a familiar and tired fable of black selflessness in which African-Americans take time out from their struggle against oppression to lift the battered self-esteem of white people who have the good sense not to be snarling bigots. Even Ms. Fanning weeping on cue and looking uncomfortable otherwise seems a little abashed that the movie in the end has to be all about her." August and her sisters also have Lily to deal with and the film seems to struggle with an awkward and unstated tension. You can almost feel how badly it wants to be about the lives not of bees but of black women at a pivotal moment in the recent past." “The Secret Life of Bees” unfolds in a sentimental honey-glazed land that vaguely resembles South Carolina in 1964. It would be wrong to say that the troubles of that time and place have been wished away — on the contrary the movie begins with a scene of horrific domestic violence and includes child abuse a racially motivated beating suicide and the threat of a lynching — but from the opening voice-over to the final credits every terror and sorrow is swaddled in warm therapeutic comfort." based on the novel by Sue Monk Kidd; director of photography Rogier  Stoffers; edited by Terilyn A. Shropshire; music by Mark Isham; production designer Warren Alan Young; produced by Lauren Shuler Donner James Lassiter Will Smith and Joe Pichirallo; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." Dakota Fanning (Lily Owens) Jennifer Hudson (Rosaleen Daise) Alicia Keys (June Boatwright) Sophie Okonedo (May Boatwright) Nate Parker (Neil) Tristan Wilds (Zach Taylor) Hilarie Burton (Deborah Owens) and Paul Bettany (T. Ray Owens)." who seems a little simple-minded is also so deeply empathetic that her sisters have built a “wailing wall ”  where she can go to cry when the world’s grief overwhelms her which is often. June who plays the cello is also a political activist (or at least a collector of N.A.A.C.P. T-shirts) and as such is a bit leery of the white girl who comes around in need of mothering. But August is a person of such boundless maternal wisdom and generosity that neither June nor Lily nor any of the million bees in August’s care need worry." tolerance love and healing that it winds up defeating itself and robbing Ms. Kidd’s already maudlin tale of its melodramatic heat. At first there is a jolt of pure Southern Gothic as Dakota Fanning matter-of-factly tells us that when she was 4 she shot her mother dead. Ms. Fanning plays Lily who at the age of 14 when the story takes place lives with her mean-drunk peach farmer dad T. Ray (Paul Bettany). He tells her that her mother never loved her and makes her kneel on grits when she misbehaves." and the bigotry and suspicion of the era take their toll worries are no match for matriarchal folk religion and the wisdom of the beehive. In its fuzzy linking of female power with insect life “The Secret Life of Bees” shows a curious kinship with Neil LaBute’s ill-starred remake of “The Wicker Man ” but with nurturing African-American women in place of murderous white ones." 
6755
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/15/movies/15fron.html
“Frontrunners” doesn’t strive to generate more suspense than the situation merits which isn’t much. Nor do the petty trumped-up school causes that George embraces seem to matter to the students who appear contented with the status quo. The passions that are running high in this year’s national presidential campaign are nowhere to be felt at Stuyvesant where the most pressing problem facing seniors is being accepted into an Ivy League college." “Frontrunners” finds parallels between the election at Stuyvesant High and the current national election. Apathy pervades the political climate at Stuyvesant where the majority of students are barely aware that an election is even taking place and when it does the turnout is light." the film arrives with the blessing of Dick Morris a graduate from Stuyvesant High’s class of 1964. It is hard to imagine that this strident cynical political consultant was ever a teenager. Yet the production notes quote him as saying “It was at Stuyvesant that I learned how to be a politician and it was in their elections that I developed my abilities.” Although Mr. Morris does not appear in the documentary his remarks leave you wondering how life after high school turns teenage politicians into Machiavellian operators." attention is paid to ethnic composition. Roughly half the school’s 3 200 students are Asian and one of the two frontrunners appears to have chosen a vice-presidential candidate because she is Asian." Gregory Mitnick; edited by Jane Rizzo; produced by Erika Frankel; released by Oscilloscope Pictures. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated." but interviews with the front-runners’ parents are too cursory to provide much insight. Instead the film wastes precious time showing the candidates smiling and handing out fliers in school hallways." the mudslinging of today’s presidential campaign may someday be a thing of the past. Hints of gentler times ahead run through Caroline Suh’s mild-mannered documentary “Frontrunners ” which follows four slates of fresh-faced contenders in a recent school election." detached documentary in which there are no highs or lows. Politically and emotionally the movie’s thermostat remains at medium cool." the remaining candidates face off in a closed-circuit televised debate and pursue the endorsement of the school newspaper. The election’s final lap becomes a contest between George an earnest first-generation Greek-American bowling champion political strategist and quintessential nerd and Hannah the school’s red-headed cheerleading captain an actress who leads its dance squad. Translated roughly the contest pits policy against popularity." 
6756
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/11/movies/11quar.html
with its hand-held trembly-cam and tipsy point of view is enjoying a resurgence almost a decade after  the advent of “The Blair Witch Project.”  In a little more than a year we’ve seen “Diary of the Dead ” “Cloverfield” and the low-budget charmer “The Signal.” Now “Quarantine” wants to remind us that the most terrifying threat we face could be brewing not in the Middle East but in the apartment next door." Jay Hernandez (Jake) Columbus Short (Danny Wilensky) Greg Germann (Lawrence) Steve Harris (Scott Percival) Dania Ramirez (Sadie) Rade Sherbedgia (Yuri Ivanov) and Johnathon Schaech (George Fletcher)." but “Quarantine” delivers the heebie-jeebies with solid acting and perfectly calibrated shocks. Cleverly working his claustrophobic setting (and the adapted script  from the Spanish movie “[REC]”) Mr. Dowdle keeps the action tight and the injuries nasty." brain drilling and rodent squishing." based on the film “[REC]” by Jaume Balagueró Luiso A. Berdejo and Paco Plaza; director of photography Ken Seng; edited by Elliot Greenberg; production designer Jon Gary Steele; produced by Doug Davison Roy Lee and Sergio Agüero; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes." a gung-ho television reporter who along with her unflappable cameraman Scott (Steve Harris) is shadowing firefighters for a special on night workers. Responding to a 911 call from a downtown apartment building they arrive to find a salivating hag and a gaggle of anxious residents. With Scott’s camera running a merely weird situation rapidly escalates into bloody mayhem as a mysterious “infection” spreads and the authorities seal the building. It’s a credit to the director John Erick  Dowdle that the movie’s least credible occurrence is the speed of government response." ” Ms. Carpenter admits in the press notes. “It takes a certain kind of stomach.” That’s right: an empty one." 
6757
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/10/movies/10happ.html
Eddie Marsan (Scott) Alexis Zegerman (Zoe) Andrea Riseborough (Dawn) Sinéad Matthews (Alice) Kate O’Flynn (Suzy) Sarah Niles (Tash) Sylvestra le Touzel (Heather) Karina Fernandez (Flamenco Teacher) and Stanley Townsend (Tramp)." ” “Naked” and “Vera Drake” — you may find yourself watching his most recent movie “Happy-Go-Lucky ” with mounting unease a tinge of dread. Despite the extraordinary human parade that has passed in front of his lens laughing and raging yearning for love and asking for cuddles Mr. Leigh has never been an artist for whom happy (word or idea) has been an easy fit. Life is sweet as the title of another of his films puts it with a heart-swelling yes but it’s also an eternal fight against doom and gloom the soul-crushing no." Poppy and her roommate Zoe (Alexis Zegerman tastily tart to Poppy’s sugar) are joking about Stravinsky and “The Rite of Spring ” a bit of high-cultural name-dropping that feels as if it had been specifically designed to tweak the audience’s class assumptions. Mr. Leigh has a documentarian’s eye for unadorned reality — his people and places look equally lived in — and his dialogue has the ebb and flow the swells and eddies and logjams of ordinary conversation. His characters often talk in circles instead of direct lines clucking and offering cups of tea. But the dramatist in Mr. Leigh is always hard at work aligning his characters for maximum narrative effect and emotional pow." but are actually painstakingly conceived through an involved and lengthy collaboration between him and his actors that begins with improvisatory rehearsals and results in a tightly structured shooting script. Poppy short for Pauline a pixieish 30-year-old partial to bright blues (as if she were dressing with pieces of sky) is one of his most persuasive optimists though Mr. Leigh tries to obscure her appeal with some early misdirection. Not long after her bike ride Poppy and some girlfriends materialize at an ear-piercingly noisy club bouncing in unison to the numbing sonic throb only to then dissolve together into a silly girly puddle." Los Angeles and San Francisco." Dick Pope; edited by Jim Clark; music by Gary Yershon; production designer Mike Tildesley; produced by Simon Channing Williams; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes." the film feels like a coda to Mr. Leigh’s splenetic 1993 drama “Naked ” about an angry young man Johnny with a severe case of logorrhea. Words are weapons for Johnny who uses them to prop himself up and tear everyone else down while for Poppy a primary-school teacher they’re more of a caress. They’re also invariably outwardly directed (“Bless ’em ” she says with believable habit) and often accompanied by and obscured by hiccups of laughs and giggles. These yelps of joy at first make her seem a touch demented (a bookstore clerk’s silence suggests as much) a prejudice Mr. Leigh is delighted to demolish." burbling stream of gasps giggles and words — Poppy rides into “Happy-Go-Lucky” on a bicycle with daytime London and the film’s opening credits slipping past her. She looks lost in thought (not lost) and wonderfully content. The bike soon goes missing (“We didn’t even get a chance to say goodbye ” she murmurs) but Poppy keeps moving forward and dancing and jumping and laughing and nodding her dark delicate head as if she were agreeing not just with this or that friend but also with life itself. She’s altogether charming or perhaps maddening — much depends on whether you wear rose-colored specs — recognizably human and every inch a calculated work of art." for rivers of tears stormy skies and third-act woe. Happiness is for suckers and Disney Inc. But happiness is a complicated difficult matter and in “Happy-Go-Lucky” it’s also a question of faith. Poppy isn’t a celluloid saint: she lusts like a real woman and nurses plenty of pints to go along with her loneliness. She also betrays herself and her neediness in a series of amazingly paced and played scenes that find her taking weekly driving lessons from Scott (Eddie Marsan in a boldly repellent turn) a seething lump of rage and resentment whom she soon sends hurtling around the bend. Horribly funny and often just horrible the lessons distill individual relationships to their stop-and-go lurching essence." investing it with narrative tension and a sense of artistic purpose that is whether overtly articulated or not also insistently vigorously left-leaning. The hard-working and often besieged characters who populate his stories live in worlds partly defined if not wholly circumscribed by ideology and the state. Nobody mounts a soapbox or whistles “The Internationale” in “Happy-Go-Lucky ” but the film is so closely tuned to the pulse of communal life to the rhythms of how people work play and struggle together it captures the larger picture along with the smaller. Like Poppy the bright focus of this expansive moving film Mr. Leigh isn’t one to go it alone." teaches and learns. At one point she takes flamenco lessons (from a sternly funny Karina Fernandez) doing her best to hold a pose that the instructor likens to that of an eagle. But grand poses don’t come naturally to Poppy who earlier in the story dresses up like a chicken to the delight of her students. She’s made of humbler stuff human stuff which Mr. Leigh tenderly expresses in a surrealistic interlude that finds her wandering through a garden and arriving at a kind of Joycean nightscape where a visibly disturbed gibbering homeless man (Stanley Townsend) asks her again and again “Know what I mean?” “Yeah ” says Poppy reaching across the abyss. “I do.”" 
6758
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/10/movies/10tale.html
he is protective of his sister and he has aspirations that go beyond gangsterism: to be a reggaetón star of course. But his criminal life has a gravitational pull that keeps sucking him back in. The violence-laden story such as it is is ineptly stitched together; it’s unclear who is shooting at whom and why; and the dialogue seldom advances beyond “Yo dog” and “Whassup?” The soundtrack is the only draw here." a thug who runs the drug business in a ragged slum of Puerto Rico and  well is there any need to go on?" and now Daddy Yankee a big star in the related musical genre of reggaetón takes his big-screen shot in “Talento de Barrio.” Unfortunately any acting skills he might have  and it looks as if he might well have some  are powerless against the thudding cliché of a script he is saddled with." Leslie J. Colombani Jr.; edited by Mariem Pérez; music by Samuel López; art director Pascual Febus; produced by Mr. Rivera; released by Maya Releasing. In Spanish and English with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." Ángel Rodríguez (Jaico) César Farrait (Wichy) Eddie Ávila (Jay) Katiria Soto (Soribel) Glorimar Montalvo (Tata) and Angélica Alcaide (Natasha)." 
6759
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/10/movies/10scot.html
Mr. Shenkman’s thankless role is that of the supportive spouse a male Myrna Loy pouring oil on troubled waters." an endearing young actor who imbues Scot with a cheeky I-am-what-I-am attitude toward his temporary surrogate parents and his persecuting peers. He knows that Eric and Sam are gay but doesn’t really know what gay means. Whether Scot is homosexual beneath his mannerisms is left open to question." a way of staying by her side. It is the most original notion in a small good-hearted movie that wouldn’t hurt a fly." ” an effeminate 11-year-old boy who loves boas beads and Broadway musicals is taken in by a semi-closeted gay male couple Eric (Tom Cavanagh) and Sam (Ben Shenkman) after his mother dies of a drug overdose. That mother was the common-law wife of Sam’s wastrel brother Billy who has left for Brazil promising to return and leaving the boy Scot (Noah Bernett) in the custody of child services." based on the novel by Michael Downing; director of photography David Makin; edited by Susan Shipton; music by Robert Carli; production designer Tamara Deverell; produced by Paul Brown; released by Regent Releasing/Here! Films. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." a sports lawyer might as well be straight roommates for all the affection they display even when alone. The impulsive little peck that Eric dares to plant on Sam’s lips at a party late in the movie comes across more as an expression of terror than as a sign of his imminent liberation from internalized homophobia." “Breakfast With Scot ” adapted from a novel by Michael Downing deserves a light round of applause. In the novel the couple are a chiropractor and an editor at an Italian art magazine in Cambridge Mass. The movie directed by Laurie Lynd from a screenplay by Sean Reycraft changes their occupations and moves the story to Toronto (Eric’s former team is the Maple Leafs)." the presence in his home of an auburn-haired girlie-boy with a flouncing gait and a fondness for Christmas carols threatens his masculine self-image not to mention his reputation as a macho sports hero." Ben Shenkman (Sam Miller) Noah Bernett (Scot) Benz Antoine (Greg Graham) Jeananne Goossen (Nula) and Dylan Everett (Ryan Burlington)." 
6760
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/10/movies/10leon.html
Paula Grandio; edited by Sebastián Sepúlveda and Valeria Otheguy; music by Vincent Artaud; production designer Sergio Rud; produced by Juan Solanas Pablo Salomón Alexis Vonarb Aton Soumache Pierre Rambaldi and Catherine Barra; released by Music Box Films. At Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. In Spanish with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." the gruff studly pilot of a water taxi." “La León” sheathes its rather straightforward tale of trouble in paradise in a dreamlike membrane of beauty and strangeness. Photographed by Paula Grandio in rich black-and-white high-definition video the movie unfolds with lolling hypnotic rhythms that do more to seduce the mind than the narrative itself." ” a beguiling 2004 film by the Argentine director Lisandro Alonso which likewise pondered mysteries of  desire in the depths of rural Argentina. Mr. Otheguy’s vision isn’t on a par with that unsettling fable — not much is — but in the prosaic context of gay cinema “La León” unfolds like poetry." Daniel Valenzuela (El Turu) José Muñoz (Iribarren) and Daniel Sosa (Gadea Padre)." mist and thick tropical air permeate the landscape of “La León ” a sumptuous film about the swirling of desire in the Paraná Delta. This lush labyrinth of Argentine waterways is fertile ground for a movie in thrall to the pellucid spectacles of nature — but a rather barren place to find  yourself yearning for erotic connection." 
6761
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/10/movies/10conn.html
Jim Timperman; music by Kazimir Boyle; production designer Roy Rede; produced by Karuna Eberl James McLean Luke Eberl Andrew McFarlane and Aaron Himelstein; released by Strand Releasing. At Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes. This film is not rated." “Choose Connor” is undeniably obvious and intermittently awkward. Yet the filmmaker’s choices — long easy takes instead of jumpy camerawork spare background music instead of a mood-pop soundtrack — smoothly evoke a world of backslapping cronyism. Here business and politics share more than financial interests and idealism and innocence rarely go unpunished." ” a jaundiced look at political power and moral turpitude draws you in by creeping you out." the bookish friendless boy is flattered to be offered a junior position with Connor’s senatorial campaign. Equally unexpected is the attention of Connor’s adopted nephew Caleb (Escher Holloway) a charismatic teenager who carves disturbing puppets and bears even more disturbing physical scars." it’s clear where “Choose Connor” is headed. What makes the journey compelling is the relaxed chemistry between the young actors and an insistently apprehensive tone that pervades even the most prosaic exchanges. When Connor recounts a story about a school bully to an uncomfortable Owen no amount of physical contact could make the scene more skin-crawlingly predatory." Alex Linz (Owen Norris) Escher Holloway (Caleb) John Rubinstein (Cary Evor) Chris Marquette (Tony) and Erick Avari (Arthur Dennison)." 
6762
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/10/movies/10nigh.html
Joe Swanberg (James) Alison Bagnall (Reporter) Elizabeth Donius (James’s sister-in-law) Jay Duplass (James’s brother) Kent Osborne (Mattie’s sister’s boyfriend) Lynn Shelton (Mattie’s sister) and Ellen Stagg (Photographer)." verbally and physically in their leisure hours — nights and weekends like the free time on a cellphone plan. He lives in Chicago she lives in New York but you get the feeling that geographical distance isn’t the problem." Matthias Grunsky and Benjamin Kasulke; produced by Ms. Gerwig Anish Savjani Dia Sokol and Mr. Swanberg; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 19 minutes. This film is not rated." veterans (if that word can be used) of the  ultra-indie so-called mumblecore movement “Night and Weekends” observes the failing days of a relationship and an awkward post-breakup reunion." Greta Gerwig while also suggesting that the movie will aspire to a naked honesty about relationships." infantile neurosis with next to no hint of a complex — or even legible — inner life." 
6763
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/10/movies/10lies.html
Ferris flirts with Aisha (Golshifteh Farahani) an Iranian refugee who works as a nurse and who has even less of an organic relation to the narrative than poor Vera Farmiga did in “The Departed.” The dramatic — I daresay the erotic — center of “Body of Lies” is an all-male triangle involving Ferris Hoffman and Hani (Mark Strong) the head of Jordanian intelligence. Mr. Strong also seen in the similar and superior “Syriana ” is a marvel of exotic suavity and cool insinuation. Hani calls Ferris “my dear” and may be more sincere in his affection than the ideologically driven Hoffman who refers to his younger colleague more generically as “buddy.”" it appears to exercise (unlike the president). With an unusual display of impish delight Mr. Crowe throws himself into the physicality of his character a schlubby tubby suburban dad whose near-parodic commitment to domestic routine contrasts amusingly with his professional fanaticism. Using a hands-free cellphone Hoffman orchestrates elaborate schemes and double-crosses while going about his daily paterfamilias business: loading his kids into the minivan helping his young son in the bathroom and tearing open a bag of Pepperidge Farm Goldfish crackers on the sidelines of his daughter’s soccer game." based on the novel by David Ignatius; director of photography Alexander Witt; edited by Pietro Scalia; music by Marc Streitenfeld; production designer Arthur Max; produced by Donald De Line and Mr. Scott; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 6 minutes." Russell Crowe (Ed Hoffman) Mark Strong (Hani) Golshifteh Farahani (Aisha) Oscar Isaac (Bassam) Simon McBurney (Garland) Alon Aboutboul (Al-Saleem) and Ali Suliman (Omar Sadiki)." meanwhile plays Ferris’s supervisor Ed Hoffman who lives somewhere around Washington and has no specified regional background to explain his odd little drawl. At times Mr. Crowe showing the linguistic chameleonism that is the birthright of every Australian actor spits out his words with an emphatic twanginess that suggests if not George W. Bush himself then perhaps Jon Stewart impersonating Mr. Bush. It’s possible that this resemblance is meant to imply a parallel between the president and Hoffman who  is immune to self-doubt and allergic to second thoughts about the righteousness of his actions." and in his occasional surprise visits to Ferris in the field Hoffman is fighting a war whose terms he lays out in a few set-piece speeches. The gist is that no one is innocent and that the ends justify the means. Deceit torture the sacrifice of non-American lives — all is permissible in the fight against a shadowy superjihadist named Al-Saleem (Alon Aboutboul) head of a network carrying out suicide attacks around Europe. The contradictions and unintended consequences of Hoffman’s tactics are borne by Ferris who finds his credibility undermined his friends and colleagues at risk and his life in danger." but there are other puzzles in “Body of Lies” that are not so easily solved and that may distract from sober contemplation of geopolitical pseudorealities. Such as: what exactly is going on with Leonardo DiCaprio’s accent or Russell Crowe’s body mass index? Mr. DiCaprio playing a high-strung C.I.A. operative named Roger Ferris once again shows his commitment to full employment for dialect coaches following the mock-Afrikaans of “Blood Diamond” and the South Boston braying of “The Departed” with some good-old-boy inflections that are helpfully identified by Mr. Crowe’s character as originating in North Carolina." a columnist at The Washington Post — were clearer about its themes or its plot. As it is the movie is a hodgepodge of borrowings and half-cooked ideas flung together into a feverishly edited jet-setting exercise in purposeless intensity. Place names flash onto the screen — Amman! Amsterdam! Langley! — and shiny black S.U.V.’s  and Mercedes sedans screech through teeming streets or kick up dust clouds on empty desert roads. From time to time an orange fireball erupts and everything shows up on the satellite surveillance screens back at headquarters." “Body of Lies” might have been a more surprising and interesting specimen of its genre. Instead it throws out a few gestures toward topicality — an opening quote from the W. H. Auden poem  that flew around the Internet just after 9/11; glances toward Gitmo and the Green Zone; an awkward dinner-table spat about American foreign policy — without saying much of anything. Mr. Scott’s professionalism is as ever present in every frame and scene but this time it seems singularly untethered from anything like zeal conviction or even curiosity." “Body of Lies ” raises a potentially disturbing question. If terrorism has become boring does that mean the terrorists have won? Or conversely is the grinding tedium of this film good news for our side evidence of the awesome might of Western popular culture which can turn even the most intransigent and bloodthirsty real-world villains into fodder for busy contrived and lifeless action thrillers?" 
6764
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/10/movies/10expr.html
and the most effective in infusing sports nostalgia with a sense of historical consequence. The end of the film is inevitably somber — Ernie Davis’s life was foreshortened by leukemia — which adds to a general feeling of sentimental overload. But if a movie of this kind didn’t traffic in overstatement it wouldn’t be doing its job which is to provide a strong dose of simple rousing emotion." played by Rob Brown in a likable if somewhat stiff performance. The stiffness comes in part from the script by Charles Leavitt which is more inclined toward homily than toward psychological nuance. Ernie who overcomes a childhood stutter is raised by his mother (Aunjanue Ellis) and especially his grandfather (Charles S. Dutton) a Pennsylvania coal miner. After a flurry of expository scenes that supply a basic sketch of the young man’s background and temperament he arrives at Syracuse where he falls under the tutelage of Ben Schwartzwalder (Dennis Quaid) the gruff but decent head coach." Rob Brown (Ernie Davis) Omar Benson Miller (Jack Buckley) Aunjanue Ellis (Marie Davis) Clancy Brown (Roy Simmons) Darrin DeWitt Henson (Jim Brown) Saul Rubinek (Art Modell) Nelsan Ellis (Will Davis Jr.) Nicole Beharie (Sarah Ward) and Charles S. Dutton (Willie Davis)." played by Omar Benson Miller) — he also has to fill the shoes of Jim Brown who preceded him as Syracuse’s star black rusher. Relations between Brown (Darrin DeWitt Henson) and his coach were not exactly harmonious and Davis must deal with a legacy of tension and suspicion in the locker room and on the practice field." squarely aimed at a presumably large cross-section of the moviegoing public: people who love football and hate racism. Like “Glory Road ” “The Great Debaters” and numerous other similar movies it packages a real-life story of athletic triumph and social progress into an accessible rousing melodrama that is no less potent for being almost entirely predictable." I’d guess — whose knowledge of college football in the early 1960s is hazy or nonexistent. The pivotal moment in “The Express ” solidly directed by Gary Fleder is the 1960 Cotton Bowl where Syracuse faced the University of Texas. The Syracuse team coming off an undefeated season was notable for the presence of Ernie Davis a supremely talented running back who would go on to become the first black winner of the Heisman trophy." based on the book “Ernie Davis: The Elmira Express” by Robert Gallagher; director of photography Kramer Morgenthau; edited by William Steinkamp and Padraic McKinley; music by Mark Isham; production designer Nelson Coates; produced by John Davis; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 9 minutes." but most of “The Express” is taken up with alternating set pieces the Big Game followed by the Big Scene in which prejudice is confronted and attitudes are changed. Davis with his idealized mixture of stubbornness amiability and grace is both the film’s symbol of progress and its dramatic catalyst but you don’t get much sense of his internal struggle. It’s the coach and thus Mr. Quaid who carries the main dramatic burden of undergoing a significant change." a few fights and strong language." 
6765
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/10/movies/10embe.html
the brilliant young actress from “Atonement ” being wasted in the science-fiction juvenilia of “City of Ember” is to be reminded that a powerful performance needs an equivalent screenplay. In “City of Ember ” she has nothing to work with." who is 14 and the dimple-chinned 24-year-old heartthrob Harry Treadaway portray Lina and Doon best pals fleeing a subterranean dystopia guided by the kind of cryptic instructions found in the “National Treasure” movies. In Jeanne DuPrau’s children’s novel (the first of the four-part “Book of Ember” series) from which the film was adapted Lina and Doon are dewy 12-year-old adventurers loaded with pluck but devoid of personality." ” directed by the British filmmaker Gil Kenan (“Monster House”) suggests a mild satire of end-of-days ideology especially when Mary Kay Place appears as a prating singsongy proselytizer for the status quo. Most of the time however it’s a whiz-bang kid’s film with neat gadgets and sound effects and an extended chase and escape sequence through underground rivers and tunnels. At only 95 minutes the movie feels as though it had been shredded in the editing room. In Hollywood-speak it has a weak second act." as well as several zany gadgets worthy of Rube Goldberg. The wittiest is a primitive telephone-answering machine that resembles the do-it-yourself hi-fi kits assembled by audiophiles in the early days of stereo. Because telephones no longer work in Ember the machine is a quaint relic from another age." based on the book by Jeanne DuPrau; director of photography Xavier Pérez Grobet; production designer Martin Laing; produced by Tom Hanks Gary Goetzman and Steven Shareshian; released by Fox Walden. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." the predominant noises are the clanks squeaks and hisses of rusted machinery and steam pipes in the crumbling labyrinthine underground city of Ember. This decrepit hole in the ground from which there is no easy exit is where humanity huddles in mounting discomfort under the autocratic rule of a series of mayors who dress like budget-conscious impersonators of Henry VIII." riled-up rooster on speed as well as harmless oversize creatures resembling beetles and cockroaches. Bill Murray droops through the movie as the fat corrupt mayor of Ember who maintains a secret bunker stocked with the canned goods that have become scarce. Even when affecting high dudgeon Mr. Murray looks too bored to convey more than token menace. Tim Robbins is also on hand as Doon’s earnest secretly rebellious father who spends his days tinkering with exotic inventions." forbidden to venture into the above-ground world have forgotten their past they face subterranean extinction. Ember recalls the more sophisticated world of E. M. Forster’s infinitely more evocative 1909 story “The Machine Stops.”" clean-cut adolescents full of gee-whiz enthusiasm may lead humanity back into the fresh air and sunlight." Harry Treadaway (Doon) Bill Murray (Mayor Cole) Tim Robbins (Loris Harrow) Martin Landau (Sul) Toby Jones (Barton Snode) Mary Kay Place (Mrs. Murdo) and Marianne Jean-Baptiste (Clary)." 
6766
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/08/movies/08delw.html
incensed sets off to find her mother and expose her father’s shameful secrets. Cutting between the women’s journeys — one fearful and hopeless the other purposeful and noble — Mr. Yameogo contrasts the shackles of tradition with the stirrings of rebellion never allowing the heat of indignation to cloud his eye for a striking landscape or an expressive face." and it shows) he demonstrates how superstition supports patriarchy and how easily both can slide into misogyny. In a country where women can be forced to drink a vile “truth potion” or become outcasts Pougbila’s resolute march is more than just an act of defiance: it’s the promise of progress." a 16-year-old village beauty who elicits  jealousy from the local girls and appreciative glances from their boyfriends. But the village elders are  preoccupied with the decreasing rainfall and rising number of child deaths; led by Pougbila’s father (Célestin Zongo) they accuse her mother (Blandine Yameogo the filmmaker’s cousin) of witchcraft and banish her to fend for herself." with English subtitles) and directed by S. Pierre Yameogo; director of photography Jürg Hassler; edited by Jean-Christophe Ané; music by Wasis Diop; art director Chef Joseph Kpobly; produced by Mr. Yameogo and Pierre-Alain Meier; released by New Yorker Films. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." economy and exquisitely controlled anger." Claire Ilboudo (Pougbila) Célestin Zongo (Diarrha) Daniel Kabore (Bancé) Thomas Ngourma (Elie) and Jules Taonssa (Raogo)." 
6767
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/08/movies/08rock.html
and there’s a chase sequence that nicely devolves into an impressionistic blur of herky-jerky faces — but there isn’t much to chew on or mull over. The violence is idiotic and brutal (the story is just idiotic) but it’s also so noncommittal  that it doesn’t offend. Like the filmmaking itself the violence has no passion no oomph no sense of real or even feigned purpose. For Mr. Ritchie a man who clearly appreciates fine tailoring (and kudos to the costume designer Suzie Harman) a fist in the mouth or a bullet in the head is just a stylistic flourish some flash to tart up the genre clichés he never seems to have bought in the first place." David Higgs; edited by James Herbert; music by Steve Isles; production designer Richard Bridgland; produced by Joel Silver Susan Downey Steve Clark-Hall and Mr. Ritchie; released by Warner Brothers.   Running time: 1 hour 57 minutes." while the underdeployed Idris Elba plays his partner in London crime Mumbles — committing the usual villainy while spouting the usual argot. There’s the big bad boss Lenny Cole (Tom Wilkinson) a thug in bespoke pinstripes who comes with an iron fist in a velvet glove called Archy (Mark Strong). There are drugs and a rock ’n’ roll druggie Johnny Quid (Toby Kebbell). There’s the requisite femme fatale in stilettos Stella (Thandie Newton) and the de rigueur scary scarily rich Russian Uri (Karel Roden). There are double-crosses and right hooks and ha-ha scenes of grim torture that come with throbbing musical accompaniment." Tom Wilkinson (Lenny Cole) Thandie Newton (Stella) Mark Strong (Archy) Idris Elba (Mumbles) Tom Hardy (Handsome Bob) Toby Kebbell (Johnny) Jeremy Piven (Roman) Ludacris (Mickey) and Karel Roden (Uri)." Los Angeles and Toronto." ” a return to the shady stylings that characterized his earlier flicks “Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels” and “Snatch.” The on-screen names have changed and the edited rhythms have been somewhat slowed but more or less everything else follows formula: pump up the volume tilt the camera flex the muscle strut the stuff bang bang blah blah." upend or abandon them. To judge from his crime flicks Mr. Ritchie seems to have gravitated to the underworld primarily because of some misbegotten and vague sense of cool. The history of real and imaginary British crime certainly gives him fodder including the real East End criminals the Kray twins (who were put out of nasty business in 1968 the year Mr. Ritchie was born)   and the nattily dressed lethally armed Michael Caine in Mike Hodges’s vicious “Get Carter” (1971). American criminals have the bigger guns but the Brits lock and load like dandies a fact that more than any other seems to have shaped Mr. Ritchie’s oeuvre." 
6768
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/04/movies/04caro.html
as do celebrity cameos (James Woods Jon Voight Dennis Hopper Kelsey Grammer). But it’s the laziness of the writing that most offends." Presidents Kennedy and Washington) and is shown what could happen without leaders willing to man up for freedom: billboards for “Victoria’s Burka” in Times Square!" “An American Carol” uses the template of “A Christmas Carol” to string together its gags (far too many of which involve Malone’s stuffing his mouth or getting whacked in the face)." but why would it be? After all what good is the traitorous opinion of the cheese-eating news-media elite when it comes to a satire of the radical left?" a Michael Moore-like documentary filmmaker whose most recent diatribe “Die You American Pigs! ” is a box office failure despite his following among campus protesters Hollywood sissies and other snooty factions of the blame-America-first set. Malone tries to right his reputation by preparing a fiction feature (“Fascist America”) while simultaneously planning a rally to ban the Fourth of July." 
6769
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03robb.html
who is also credited alongside Mr. Safdie as writer) is an impenetrable 20-something who traipses around lower Manhattan committing random acts of theft — a purse here a car there even a surprise bagful of kittens — for no apparent reason. We’re given zero insight into her mind;  all that’s divulged is that she’s a terrible Ping-Pong player and doesn’t know how to drive though she picks that up rather quickly when shuttling an affected friend (played by the affected director) home to Boston in a stolen Volvo." Josh Safdie (Josh) Wayne Chin (Wayne) Jordan Zaldez and Jerry Damons (Cops) and Dawn Glickman (Dawn)." “The Acquaintances of a Lonely John ” made by Mr. Safdie’s  brother Benny.  It is similar in style and execution to its accompanying feature but with a lead character who in 13 minutes  is more realized than Eléonore  is in 71." based on a story by Andy Spade Anthony Sperduti and Josh Safdie; directors of photography Brett Jutkiewicz and Josh Safdie; edited by Mr. Jutkiewicz Josh Safdie and Benny Safdie; produced by Mr. Jutkiewicz Zachary Treitz Sam Lisenco Josh Safdie and Alex Orlovsky; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 11 minutes. This film is not rated." written and directed by the 24-year-old Joshua Safdie who has apparently gorged himself on Truffaut and the entire French New Wave exposes itself as a technically deficient bore with little on its agenda." 
6770
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03rach.html
it would be a shame to miss “Rachel Getting Married ” which may have its flaws but which is so persuasively forgiving of the flaws of its inhabitants that you can only respond in like spirit with love." cynical and solipsistic to save the movie from sentimentality just as Rachel embodied with  calm intelligence by Ms. DeWitt inoculates it against melodrama. Debra Winger in a few quietly incandescent scenes as their mother briefly lifts the movie onto another plane altogether somehow combining movie-star charisma with an almost heartbreaking restraint and giving us a taste of what we’ve been missing in the years of her semi-retirement." drug use and emotional violence." Rosemarie DeWitt (Rachel) Bill Irwin (Paul) Tunde Adebimpe (Sidney) Mather Zickel (Kieran) Anna Deavere Smith (Carol) Anisa George (Emma) and Debra Winger (Abby)." even banal. Every unhappy family may be unique but every addict is fundamentally the same and if “Rachel Getting Married” had surrendered its story completely to Kym it would have risked becoming as drab and familiar as a made-for-television 12-step homily." ” Robert Altman’s marvelously anarchic 1978 pageant of bourgeois dysfunction as an inspiration. He also shows a clear debt to the ostentatiously austere methods of the fading Dogma 95 movement. The audience only hears music that the people in the movie hear as well and the proceedings are recorded by a busily wandering video camera giving “Rachel Getting Married” some of the rough hectic intimacy of “The Celebration ” Thomas Vinterberg’s Dogma tour de force about a family party knocked off kilter by secrets and recriminations." after all the man who directed “The Silence of the Lambs ” surely the most humane serial-killer movie in the annals of the genre as well as the infinitely tolerant “Philadelphia.” (His more recent work consists of earnest documentaries like “Jimmy Carter Man From Plains” and “The Agronomist” and underrated updates of 1960s thrillers — “The Manchurian Candidate” and “The Truth About Charlie.”) He is the kind of filmmaker who gives Hollywood liberalism a good name and the most striking aspect of “Rachel Getting Married” is how without overt ideological posturing it paints a faithful and affectionate (though hardly uncritical) portrait of blue-state America." drawing the attention of her father (Bill Irwin) away from Rachel (Rosemarie DeWitt) and pulling both the film’s and her family’s center of gravity toward the self-loathing self-pitying core of her damaged personality. And like the family the film directed by Jonathan Demme from a screenplay by Jenny Lumet both accommodates Kym’s need for recognition and struggles against it." even as he and Ms. Hathaway conspire to show her at her appalling worst. But he has never been one to restrict his sympathies and the wonderful thing about “Rachel Getting Married” is how expansive it seems in spite of the limits of its scope and the modesty of its ambitions. It’s a small movie and in some ways a very sad one but it has an undeniable and authentic vitality an exuberance of spirit that feels welcome and rare." mind you — is that even though Rachel is the one getting married it’s all about Kym her younger sister. Kym played by a decidedly un-princessy Anne Hathaway is furloughed from rehab for the happy event arriving at her father’s rambling Connecticut clapboard house on a toxic cloud of snark cigarette smoke and wounded narcissism. With her pale slack features and dark-rimmed eyes framed by severe bangs Ms. Hathaway resembles the silent film star Louise Brooks in “Pandora’s Box ” except that Kym is less like the curious maiden of Greek mythology than like the box itself:  a bottomless repository of guilt destructiveness and general bad feeling." Declan Quinn; edited by Tim Squyres; music by Zafer Tawil and Donald Harrison Jr.; production designer Ford Wheeler; produced by Mr. Demme Neda Armian and Marc Platt; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes." the naïve projection of a longed-for harmony that does not yet exist. To some extent this may be true but the texture of “Rachel Getting Married” is so loose and lived in its faces (many of them belonging to nonprofessional actors) so interesting and real that it looks more plausibly like a mirror of the way things are. It is not that racial division is willed away or made to disappear but rather that on this particular weekend other matters are more important. A wedding after all represents a symbolic as well as an actual union an intimation of possible perfection in a decidedly imperfect world." after all about Rachel a lovely and complicated young woman whose adoring fiancé Sidney (Tunde Adebimpe) is black. Rachel and Kym’s stepmother Carol (Anna Deavere Smith) is also African-American as far as we can tell. These facts are never mentioned by anyone in the movie which gathers races traditions and generations in a pleasing display of genteel multiculturalism. It’s a big messy gathering even without Kym’s melodrama so there may be no time for expressions of prejudice or social unease." 
6771
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03play.html
Kat Dennings (Norah) Alexis Dziena (Tris) Ari Graynor (Caroline) Aaron Yoo (Thom) and Jay Baruchel (Tal)." not least in the film’s vision of New York as a happy playground for underage night owls. The city’s streets are so benign that Nick’s abandonment of a girl (not Norah) in a desolate spot on the West Side can seem like a forgivable failure of gallantry rather than an act of passive-aggressive potentially homicidal malice. Everyone has a cellphone after all and the criminals and crazies that used to haunt these neighborhoods are little more than flickering memories from older movies." the movie is so friendly that you may wish for a little more conflict: higher emotional stakes riskier jokes a touch of danger in the night air. But maybe those are age-inappropriate preoccupations. Just about everyone in “Nick & Norah’s Infinite Playlist” seems to be having a good time and most of them seem like good kids (though Norah’s friend Caroline played by a scene-stealing Ari Graynor is probably headed for a stint in rehab). Why begrudge them their fun or wish premature heartache upon them? There will be plenty of time for the blues later on which is all the more reason to savor the fleeting teasing pop pleasures this movie celebrates and dispenses." dawdles pauses and skips — “Nick & Norah’s Infinite Playlist” may remind you of some older movies. It’s like Martin Scorsese’s “After Hours” filtered through the high school sensibility of John Hughes or Richard Linklater’s “Before Sunrise” remade for Nickelodeon." pouty manner and Nick’s odd mix of timidity and sarcasm are both strategies of self-protection. He has recently been dumped by Tris (Alex Dziena) a schoolmate of Norah’s and one of her social oppressors. She has a sometime boyfriend (Jay Baruchel) and behind her mask of indifference a lot of self-doubt. The daughter of a recording industry big shot Norah is never sure if anyone likes her for herself. Nick for his part seems unsure about whether he likes himself at all." based on the novel by Rachel Cohn and David Levithan; director of photography Tom Richmond; edited by Myron Kerstein; music by Mark Mothersbaugh; production designer David Doernberg ; produced by Kerry Kohansky Chris Weitz Paul Weitz and Andrew Miano; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." New Jersey high school students bouncing through the rock clubs of New York are drawn together by their shared musical passions (in particular for an enigmatic band called Where’s Fluffy). The tunes that play alongside their nocturnal adventure express longing sadness anxiety and joy with more intensity than they can muster themselves. Nick played by the wet-noodle heartthrob Michael Cera (“Juno ” “Superbad”) and Norah (Kat Dennings who has a hint of Kate Winslet’s soft smart loveliness in her face) are like so many kids these days most comfortable with diffidence understatement and a deadpan style of address that collapses the distinction between irony and sincerity." and also nice. Which is cool for “Nick & Norah’s Infinite Playlist ” and nice for them but also somewhat limiting. Mr. Sollett shows an admirably low-key directorial temperament resisting the temptations of melodrama and farce that hover around any teenage romantic comedy. Like “Raising Victor Vargas ” his earlier feature (also about lovestruck young people in Lower Manhattan but set in a demographic universe far removed from Nick and Norah’s zone of suburban entitlement) “Infinite Playlist” regards its characters with affectionate detachment and assures its audience that no great calamities or revelations are in store. Instead there are a series of small crises and tiny epiphanies all adding up to a story that courts triviality in its pursuit of charm." sexual references and situations and underage drinking." as full of adolescent self-display as a Facebook page “Nick & Norah’s Infinite Playlist” strives to capture in meticulous detail what it’s like to be young right now. Working from a popular novel by Rachel Cohn and David Levithan (and an idiomatically spot-on screenplay by Lorene Scafaria) the director Peter Sollett spins a shy sweet romance around a carefully chosen soundtrack with music (and cameo appearances) by such emblems of up-to-the-minute hipster credibility as the singer-songwriter Devendra  Banhart and the band Bishop Allen among others." mostly as praise. Unlike run-of-the-mill teensploitation comedies that smirk at or condescend to the young this film is smart about its audience and respectful of it as well. The language and sexual activity are kept within PG-13 boundaries but the script like the book is calmly candid about what adolescents do and say sexually and otherwise in the age of Too Much Information and Friends With Benefits. Neither prurient nor moralistic “Nick & Norah’s Infinite Playlist” surveys the varieties of teenage experience with tolerant sympathy which is for the most part how the characters — gay and straight reckless and cautious drunk and sober — regard one another." 
6772
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03lose.html
Mr. Young left his home in London for New York and a stint  at Vanity Fair where he  flirted with the world of celebrity “stretch limos and power restaurants ” before getting tossed out on his ear. A reverse snob (the son of an intellectual he loves so-called popcorn movies) he managed the neat trick of dipping a toe in the celebrity industrial complex and leaving that world only to feed on it further by turning his observations about it into a best seller." the crushingly unfunny and slopped-together “How to Lose Friends &  Alienate People” has neither the ambition nor the intelligence to do justice to its source material." Kirsten Dunst (Alison Olsen) Danny Huston (Lawrence Maddox) Gillian Anderson (Eleanor Johnson) Megan Fox (Sophie Maes) Miriam Margolyes (Mrs. Kowalski) Bill Paterson (Richard Young) Max Minghella (Vincent Lepak) Diana Kent (Rachel Petkoff) and Jeff Bridges (Clayton Harding)." based on the book by Toby Young; director of photography Oliver Stapleton; edited by David Freeman; music by David Arnold; production designer John Beard; produced by Stephen Woolley and Elizabeth Karlsen; released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes." the editor Graydon Carter (the man who done the deed) has said “I can only compare it with a brief one-night stand that results in octuplets.” Think of this movie directed by Robert  Weide and written by Peter Straughan as  part of that brood.  The miscast Simon Pegg (“Shaun of the Dead ” an infinitely superior entertainment) plays Mr. Young a task that largely requires the actor to strut aimlessly around taking jabs at his boss (Jeff Bridges as a barely disguised Mr. Carter an inherently flattering casting choice) and trading insults with the requisite love interest (poor Kirsten Dunst). There are crude yuks an errant pig dumb models a sassy transsexual and a young actress who will do anything to sell herself out which at least suggests that unlike this movie she has a goal." 
6773
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03humb.html
the hippie purist is very strict about following the local pot growers’ code.  Max who entertains entrepreneurial fantasies secretly rebels. It is what sons do. The consequences are not pretty." Peter is frightened and clumsy in the standard manner of the ’60s square. But as he keeps missing the bus back to Los Angeles he surrenders to the oh-wow groove of the stoner lifestyle and his heart opens. In a cliché I had assumed had died from overuse in the 1970s his enlightenment is accelerated by his first puff on a joint." ” it would have romanticized these characters as the righteously free-spirited vanguard of an emerging utopia. Instead it portrays them as likable stragglers from an earlier era fighting off the lurking anxiety that their lives might be empty and useless." Jack (Brad Dourif) a stringy-haired wild-eyed former physics professor with missing teeth abandoned his career 25 years earlier to move to the “lost coast” of far Northern California with his wife Rosie (Frances Conroy) who cultivates roses and fights off deer." Ms. Conroy and Mr. Messina whose Max suggests a young Jack Nicholson character transported out of time ring true; so does  their modern stoner argot.  These characters are fully alive." Ernest Holtzman; edited by Ed Marx; music by Izler; production designer Freddy Naff; produced by Jason Weiss; released by Magnolia Pictures. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." a thriving agricultural pursuit in the area comes with its own hippie code of values. A central tenet shared by many growers including Jack and Rosie is to produce only enough plants to earn a modest living and to satisfy recreational needs. If someone gets greedy and begins mass-producing the product the  feds who monitor the industry from  their helicopters may notice swoop down and make arrests." Fairuza Balk (Bogart) Peter Bogdanovich (Professor Hadley) Frances Conroy (Rosie) Brad Dourif (Jack) Chris Messina (Max) and Madison Davenport (Charity)." not to say creaky hip-meets-square drama in which Peter (Jeremy Strong) a nerdy uptight medical student from Los Angeles finds himself stranded in the woods with them and learns to take a deep breath and live in the moment. He arrives there after an improbable one-night stand with Max’s sometime girlfriend an abrasive free-wheeling jazz singer named Bogart (Fairuza Balk).  Peter accompanies her to Humboldt County only to be abandoned with just the clothes on his back." strong language and sexual situations." and Peter encounters the same conflicts he found in Los Angeles in  different guises. At the beginning we meet Peter’s cold controlling father (Peter Bogdanovich) a professor of medicine at the University of California who flunks him on an oral exam thereby denying him his imminent residency." Max (Chris Messina) and Max’s radiant young daughter Charity (Madison Davenport) who knows a lot more about drugs and sex than most girls on the verge of adolescence." 
6774
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03gore.html
Itsuji Itao (Keyman/His Father) Yukihide Benny (Tokyo Police Chief) Jiji-bu (Barabara-Man) Keisuke Horibe (Ruka’s Father) Ikuko Sawada (Bar Independent Diner) and Shun Sugata (Tokyo Police Commissioner)." “Tokyo Gore Police” mixes wickedly extreme mutations  acid-spewing breasts a rampaging penis  with uneasy social commentary in the form of fake ads extolling the efficiency of privatization and suicide products. Seeing our discomfort and raising it Mr. Nishimura sneaks us into a bizarre fetish club where the objectification of women has been made literal. You’ll never look at a chair in quite the same way again." “Tokyo Gore Police” plumbs wounds both cultural and physical to deliver splatterific social satire." with English subtitles) by Mr. Nishimura and Kengo Kaji; director of photography Shu G. Momose; music by Koh Nakagawa; production designer Nori Fukuda; produced by Yoko Hayama Yoshinori Chiba and Satoshi Nakamura; released by Media Blasters Releasing and Fever Dreams. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes. This film is not rated." hilarious and seriously sick “Tokyo Gore Police” asks little of Ms. Shiina (a former Benetton model) but fierce poses and great legs. A close perusal of the press notes also reveals her shoe size; perhaps her fans have fetishes of their own." these outwardly human mutants can turn wounds into weapons and flesh into fantasy. None of this fazes Ruka (Eihi Shiina) a self-cutting cop with one murdered father one successfully suicidal mother and zero chance of passing her next psych evaluation." 
6775
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03geni.html
Lauren Graham (Phyllis Kearns) Dermot Mulroney (Gil Previck) and Alan Alda (Gregory Lawson)." which he and his skittish business partner Gil (Dermot Mulroney) hope will make them rich. Those dreams are dashed when Ford suddenly and suspiciously loses interest. The final moment of truth arrives when he crashes a Ford dealers convention at which the Mustang is unveiled with the intermittent wiper as a prominent selling point. From then on his pursuit  of recognition for an invention he calls his Mona Lisa is relentless." where he intends to plead his case. Taken to a mental hospital he is treated for a nervous breakdown and released as soon as his doctor decides his obsession has subsided." played by different actors as they grow older are the movie’s principal indicators of how much time has passed. Mr. Kinnear appearing baggy-eyed and anxious throughout the film and Ms. Graham looking drably attractive barely change. The movie  doesn’t specify the year or even the decade in which events are taking place except by pop music cues and changing car models. “Flash of Genius” would have been more gripping had it pinpointed events and conveyed the harrowing physical emotional and financial cost of Kearns’s quest." who acts as his own defense lawyer. It also does an exemplary job of articulating the legal issues with an assist from Charles Dickens’s “Tale of Two Cities ” which is used to illustrate an important point." then take away the passion." Phyllis (Lauren Graham) a schoolteacher and their six children convey the family’s messy unglamorous ’60s existence. During his final push for a trial by jury after he is offered generous settlements but no credit for his invention several of his children work as his assistants." “Flash of Genius” is a meticulously constructed mechanism one that wants to convey the same mixture of idealism obsession and paranoia found in whistle-blower movies like “Silkwood” and “The Insider.” Adapted from a 1993 New Yorker article by John Seabrook and directed by Marc Abraham from a screenplay by Philip Railsback it has the tone and texture of a well-made but forgettable television movie." Dr. Robert W. Kearns (Greg Kinnear) an electrical engineer and college professor who in the late 1960s invented and patented the intermittent windshield wiper. After he presented his invention to the major Detroit automakers Ford demanded a sample unit then adopted his system without paying him or giving him credit. He ultimately sued Ford and then Chrysler for patent infringement." maybe it’s time for a true story of a shareholder in a bankrupt investment company suing its filthy rich  chief executive for his golden parachute and winning. To be a true story of course it  would have to happen." who was so perfectly cast as a screwball rake in “Ghost Town ” undertaking more serious adult roles in which he doesn’t play cute or bratty. But he is no Jimmy Stewart. You never have the feeling that he represents a cause larger than his character’s own personal grievance. Mr. Kinnear is a small-scale screen presence comfortable projecting worry frustration and even nagging obsession; moral heroism is beyond him." based on the New Yorker magazine article “The Flash of Genius” by John Seabrook; director of photography Dante Spinotti; edited by Jill Savitt; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer Hugo Luczyc-Wyhowski; produced by Gary Barber Roger Birnbaum and Michael Lieber; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 2 hours." 
6776
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03funn.html
terrorism flying post-9/11 and other tricky subjects not regularly regarded as funny business. As with all comedy individual taste will determine one’s own laugh track." often at the expense of their customs religious holidays families and themselves. Employing a rare G-rated approach — quite a few bored-looking kids populate the audience — Mohammed Amer a  Kuwait-born  Palestinian-American;  Azhar Usman a Chicagoan of Indian parentage; and Preacher Moss an African-American Muslim convert each gets his 20-plus minutes in the spotlight (mostly shot last year on a Los Angeles stage)." ”  which through humor aimed to bring mainstream awareness to  the position of Muslims within modern Western society. Hundreds of performances and four continents later the troupe’s efforts travel from stage to screen in a concert film-documentary produced and directed by Andrea Kalin." Bryant (Preacher) Moss and Azhar Usman; directors of photography John Rhode and Bryan Sarkinen; edited by David Grossbach; production designer Jennifer Spence; produced by Ms. Kalin Mr. Moss and Mr. Usman; released by Truly Indie. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6777
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03chih.html
the pampered pooch of a megarich cosmetics mogul (Jamie Lee Curtis in the flesh) is lost in Mexico and about to be devoured by three poorly animated cougars. Enter a mighty tribe of feral Chihuahuas with digital lips who sweep Chloe away and teach her the power of saying “no más.”" Plácido Domingo (Monte) George Lopez (Papi) Edward James Olmos (El Diablo) Paul Rodriguez (Chico) Cheech Marin (Manuel) Luis Guzman (Chucho) Eddie  Sotelo (Rafa) and Drew Barrymore (Chloe)." Manolo Cardona (Sam Cortez) Eugenio Derbez (Store Owner) and Jamie Lee Curtis (Aunt Viv)." you might as well go all the way. “Beverly Hills Chihuahua” approaches but never quite achieves a truly spectacular level of absurdity;  that is until it reaches the ancient Aztec homeland of the fearsome Chihuahua race." which evidently has the power to make nearby architecture collapse. As for Rachel (Piper Perabo) the empty-headed dog sitter who misplaced her rich aunt’s most prized possession in the first place she learns that it’s  O.K. to love the Mexican gardener (Manolo Cardona) as long as he’s outrageously handsome speaks perfect English and calls himself a “landscaper.”" based on a story by Mr. Bushell; director of photography Phil Meheux; edited by Sabrina Plisco; music by Heitor Pereira; production designer Bill Boes; produced by David Hoberman Todd Lieberman and John Jacobs; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes." “Chihuahua” is reasonably diverting. As one that happens to be opening  in the middle of an economic meltdown its mere existence feels utterly insane." 
6778
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/03/movies/03blin.html
based on the novel by José Saramago; director of photography César Charlone; edited by Daniel Rezende; music by Marco Antônio Guimarães/Uakti; production designer Tulé Peake; produced by Niv Fichman Andrea Barata Ribeiro and Sonoko Sakai; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 2 hours 1 minute." manipulating light color and composition at the expense of emotional or narrative clarity. Here he revels in the paradox of trying to use a visual medium to convey the experience of sightlessness and excels at showing what the world of the blind might look like. And he is not above exploiting both the comical and the horrific aspects of their condition punctuating scenes of cruelty and dread with moments of grimly funny slapstick." “an allegory is but a translation of abstract notions into a picture-language which is itself nothing but an abstraction from objects of the senses.”" ” Fernando Meirelles’s adaptation of the novel by the Nobel laureate José Saramago human civilization is threatened by a sudden and virulent outbreak of metaphor. As people go about their daily lives in an unidentified city (a brilliantly shot digitally tweaked composite of Toronto Tokyo and São Paulo) they begin one by one to lose their sight. No organic cause can be found for this condition which manifests itself not as a descent into darkness but as a whiteout as if the world had become a blank page an empty screen or a puddle of milk." and the government quarantines the afflicted in an unused sanitarium where they act out a pageant revealing the deep and ugly truths of human nature for the benefit of an audience encouraged to wonder What It All Means. We notice first of all the failures of compassion that greet the initial outbreak and then once the blind are sequestered the decline of their makeshift society into a primordial condition of tribal war. We see decency reason and fellow feeling challenged by stronger impulses toward domination and selfishness and observe how goodness can triumph by means of violence and deceit." meanwhile has retained her sight (and stayed loyally at her husband’s side) which gives her tattered clan a bit of an edge in the struggle for domination and survival that occupies the film’s long middle section. Her condition also makes her a surrogate for the audience and the crucial ingredient in the film’s murky thematic stew. We wonder why she alone was spared. Is it because she was nice to her husband when he went blind? We also wonder whether or how her apparently limitless patience and pity will withstand the challenge of caring for a filthy and terrified accidental family." Mark Ruffalo (Doctor) Alice Braga (Woman With Dark Glasses) Yusuke Iseya (First Blind Man) Yoshino Kimura (First Blind Man’s Wife) Don McKellar (Thief) Maury Chaykin (Accountant) Mitchell Nye (Boy) Danny Glover (Man With Black Eye Patch) and Gael García Bernal (Bartender/King of Ward Three)." most of whom we have encountered at least briefly before their incarceration includes an ophthalmologist and his wife (Mark Ruffalo and Julianne Moore); a prostitute (Alice Braga); a thief (Mr. McKellar); a mysterious old man (Danny Glover); a child (Mitchell Nye);  and a Japanese yuppie couple (Yusuke Iseya and Yoshino Kimura)." mainly because it can’t transcend — and indeed lays bare — the intellectual flimsiness of its source. But it is nonetheless full of examples of what good filmmaking looks like. For all its chin-rubbing brow-furrowing attitudes it does not in the end give you much to think about. But there is nonetheless a lot here to see." quartered in another ward are led by a bartender (Gael García Bernal) who turns himself into a cruel capricious monarch and whose rise to power is aided by a lieutenant (Maury Chaykin) with the advantage of having been blind all his life." but Coleridge was writing almost a century before the movies brought this process full circle restoring to these abstractions a degree of sensual immediacy he could never have foreseen." the characters in Mr. Meirelles’s film may be ciphers as they are in the mechanical universe of Mr. Saramago’s novel but they are also Julianne Moore Mark Ruffalo Alice Braga and the rest of those names listed in parentheses above. And this simple fact makes a big difference. Mr. Saramago’s lofty ideologically defended humanism has no place for actual human beings but actors of this caliber don’t know how to be anything else. Ms. Moore’s pale fine-boned face is too precise and delicate an instrument to obey the rather simplistic directives of the story and the rest of the cast shares her inability to sacrifice physical or psychological nuance in the service of vague ideas." “Blindness” belongs with those other important 20th-century allegories that use an imagined communal disaster as the laboratory for a moral thought experiment. Other notable examples drawn from the charmed circle of Nobel Prize winners might include “The Plague” by Albert Camus and William Golding’s “Lord of the Flies.” Mr. Saramago’s book lacking the dark simplicity of Camus’s fable is more likely to join Mr. Golding’s well-worn novel as term paper fodder for high school English classes." as reader or writer in the cloudy waters of literary allegory. “Blindness” concentrates on a small group of people each with a thematic identity and a clear narrative function not one with a name. When they stumble into the quarantine ward these characters introduce themselves by number according to order of arrival and by profession evidence that they have been stripped of their humanity not by sickness or the state but rather by Mr. Saramago and by Don McKellar the screenwriter." violence and nudity." 
6779
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/01/movies/01ball.html
JimMyron   Ross (James) Tarra Riggs (Marlee) and Johnny McPhail (John)." ” Lance Hammer’s austerely elegant emotionally unadorned riff on life and death in the Mississippi Delta. Shot with a sure hand and a cast of unknowns the film doesn’t so much tell a story as develop a tone and root around a place that despite the intimate camerawork remains shrouded in ambiguity. Mr. Hammer puts in the time but never asserts that he knows this world and his black characters from the inside out a wise choice for a white boy playing the blues." directed and edited by Lance Hammer; director of photography Lol Crawley; production designer Jerel Levanway; produced by Mr. Hammer and Nina Parikh; released by Alluvial Film Company. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." self-conscious debt to the Belgian brothers Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne who over the last dozen years have shaken up the world cinema scene with their grave beautiful urgent films including “Rosetta ” “The Son” and “L’Enfant ” about the everyday struggles of ordinary people. Though Mr. Hammer is clearly taking cues from the Dardennes among the most influential filmmakers working today his movie is the latest in a tradition of homegrown realism rooted in Italian neorealism and nurtured by avant-garde cinema and documentary traditions. Before there was “Ballast ” there was “The Cool World ” Shirley Clarke’s  still-vibrant 1963 drama about black gangs in Harlem and “Killer of Sheep ” Charles Burnett’s 1977 masterpiece about a poor black Los Angeles family." interspersed with words that with few exceptions sound as unrehearsed as life. Through a series of short elliptical scenes fragments of beauty caught as if on the fly you learn that James lives in a cramped trailer with his single hard-working mother Marlee (Tarra Riggs) though mostly what he does is drift. Visibly bored seemingly friendless he putt-putts across his unnamed township on a small motorbike and sniffs around the local bad element adolescent thugs offering perilous companionship and crack cocaine. Despite all this drifting the film remains grounded tethered to a great mass of humanity named Lawrence (Micheal J. Smith Sr.) who increasingly fills the screen and gives this exceptionally fine feature debut both its title and heart." more real (whatever that means!) than even most American independent fare the film nevertheless ebbs and flows like fiction. It builds on a series of incidents — a suicide an attempted suicide some bloody hooliganism and a misfired gun — any one of which would have given most of us enough excitement (and barroom anecdotes) to last a lifetime. It’s the kind of dramatic pileup that bodes ill in many films but here feels natural as air largely because Mr. Hammer’s visual style — at once spare and detailed restless and anchored by a classic sense of film space — tempers the story and keeps it from boiling over." a Southern California native whose background studying architecture is evident in his graceful compositions and sensitivity toward forms — Lawrence’s body at times looms larger than his tiny house — hovers near his characters without ever piercing their skin. He doesn’t draw blood but he does do something so many movies forget: he captures the rhythms of life. Using caressing natural light he watches and waits as Lawrence smokes another cigarette and James circles this big man like a puppy. He follows Marlee across the yard and James across the field. He catches their footfalls the sounds of their breath." “Ballast ” which has been making the international festival rounds with great success since its premiere at Sundance in January offers plenty to chew on. Shot on 35-millimeter film by the British cinematographer Lol Crawley it opens with a hand-held camera trailing after a boy of around 12 James (JimMyron  Ross) looking and then walking toward — and soon running at — hundreds thousands of geese noisily taking flight into the blue winter sky. The boy doesn’t say a word as he watches this screeching mass yet a feeling of loneliness thick as a winter coat and every bit as palpable as those darkly swirling birds (surging like storm clouds like waves) settles around him." 
6780
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/01/movies/01reli.html
its tone becomes uncertain and its rhythm choppy. An attitude of glib condescension is inadequate to address clashing religions that have turned the Middle East into an ideological cauldron. Jihadism and Orthodox Judaism are red-hot topics that Mr. Maher addresses  too sketchily to convey the same authority he brings to Christianity." they are fleeting presences in a documentary that doesn’t pretend to be a serious cultural or scientific exploration of the roots of faith. Because Mr. Maher adopts the attitude of an inquiring reporter instead of a pundit his contempt for organized religion isn’t as pointed in the movie as it is in his television monologues." however embrace some form of blind faith. But because that faith by its very nature requires a leap into irrationality it is almost impossible to explain or to defend in rational terms." a former homosexual who is now married and the  director of Exchange Ministries in Winter Park Fla. an organization whose mission is to reorient sexuality can only smile when Mr. Maher reminds him that Jesus never addressed the subject of homosexuality. At a Christian theme park where the passion of Christ is re-enacted in a tacky musical pageant the actor playing Jesus compares the Holy Trinity to the three states of water: liquid ice and vapor." he says citing a survey. For many of them including Mr. Maher the tenets of Christianity Judaism and Islam (Eastern and African religions are ignored) are dangerous fairy tales and myths that have incited barbarous purges and holy wars that are still being fought. A talking snake? A man who lived inside a fish? These are two of Mr. Maher’s favorite biblical images offered up for ridicule." Anthony Hardwick; edited by Jeff Groth Christian Kinnard and Jeffrey M. Werner; produced by Jonah Smith Palmer West and Bill Maher; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." inarticulate responses to his friendly interrogations. The majority of his subjects are easy targets. One such sitting duck is José Luis de Jesús Miranda a nattily dressed Miami preacher who declares that he is the second coming of Christ and claims that his Growing in Grace ministry has 100 000 followers. Like the fulminating televangelists whose ministries the film glosses over he comes across as a greedy self-satisfied charlatan with a fondness for gold." who laughingly agrees with him that the fundamental teachings of the Catholic Church are nonsense that are not to be taken literally. Mr. Maher unfortunately doesn’t press him on why he wears priestly vestments and presumes to exert religious authority." “Real Time With Bill Maher.” A recent clash on the program with his frequent guest the blogger and author Andrew Sullivan who is a Roman Catholic illustrated how believers and those who doubt might as well be from different planets. They can argue with each other in fairly reasonable voices about politics but not about faith." interviewing Christians Jews and Muslims in the facetiously funny documentary “Religulous ” you begin to wonder if there might be two subspecies of humans." an Arkansas Democrat  and fervent evangelical Christian why faith is good he stumbles for an answer. Returning later to Senator Pryor Mr. Maher suggests that many evangelicals look forward to  the end of the world when it is  prophesied that Jesus will return. The senator doesn’t dispute him." “Religulous” turns into a thunderous warning about the future complete with apocalyptic images of stampeding armies and mushroom clouds issued by Mr. Maher standing in the ruins of Megiddo the Israeli site from which the Book of Revelation says Armageddon will originate. Secular humanists agnostics and atheists should rise up and make themselves heard he declares. Instead of faith he emphasizes we should consider doubt." whose credits include “Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan” and many episodes of HBO’s “Curb Your Enthusiasm.” And the movie has the same loose on-the-road structure as “Borat.” Much of Mr. Maher’s film is extremely funny in a similarly irreverent offhanded way. Some true believers  — at least those who have a sense of humor about their faith  —  may even be amused. But most will not." 
6781
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/27/movies/27smot.html
which is never a good sign and doubly so for a movie that stars actors as well known as Diane Keaton and Liv Tyler. Now that it has opened in theaters (on Friday) it can be said: This shrill would-be comedy isn’t easy to watch." bad language bad vibes." “Smother” lives up to the ugliness of its title." dimly as Noah Cooper a snide  physical therapist who is laid off and finds another job as a carpet salesman. His wife Clare (Ms. Tyler) desperately wants to be pregnant a prospect that freaks Noah out and leads to unpleasant sperm-count-reduction gags." Julio Macat; edited by Kelly Matsumoto; music by Manish Raval and Tom Wolfe; production designer Mark Hutman; produced by Jay Roach Johnson Chan Bill Johnson and Mr. Rasmussen; released by Variance Films. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." the woman who puts the mother in “Smother” (Ms. Keaton) shows up at Noah’s door distraught over her husband’s suspected affair. Cue nearly an hour and a half of desperate infantile flailing by poor Ms. Keaton whose character is reduced to being as annoying as possible to her son." the projection was misaligned for several minutes until someone got up to inform the management. This conscientious gentleman was the only other ticket holder but not for long; he walked out 40 minutes later and for good reason." Diane Keaton (Marilyn Cooper) Liv Tyler (Clare Cooper) Mike White (Myron Stubbs) Ken Howard (Gene Cooper) and Selma Stern (Helen Cooper)." 
6782
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/27/movies/27proof.html
Erin Bethea (Catherine Holt) Ken Bevel (Michael Simmons) Harris Malcom (John Holt) Phyllis Malcom (Cheryl Holt) and James McLeod (Eric Harmon)." but it does have its commendable elements including that rarest of creatures on the big (or small) screen: characters with a strong conservative Christian faith who don’t sound crazy." mostly for some tantrums by Caleb." there are dramatic firefighter rescues that have little to do with the main plot — and the central couple is thinly drawn. It’s never clear what attracted these two to each other in the first place and the hard-edged Catherine’s inevitable coming-around hinges disappointingly on some simplistic sensitive-male displays. (He does the dishes!)" Bob Scott; edited by Bill Ebel; produced by Michael Catt Tracy Goode Jim McBride David Nixon and Brad Weston; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. In Manhattan at the AMC Empire 25 234 West 42nd Street. Running time: 2 hours 2 minutes." and they seem not to know when to wrap up letting the movie run on for several smarmy scenes beyond its natural endpoint. Until then though this is a decent attempt to combine faith and storytelling that will certainly register with its target audience." the brothers Alex Kendrick (who also directed) and Stephen Kendrick give the story some pull by not making Catherine into the usual neglected wallflower of a wife. Instead she’s a publicist at a hospital who spends most of the film contemplating whether to hop into bed with one of the doctors." ” it’s called." the filmmakers show a restraint rare in the movie-with-a-Message genre so much so that the two most appealing characters are those nudging Caleb toward Christianity (Mr. Malcom and Ken Bevel as a fellow firefighter)." with or without the God part." 
6783
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26eagl.html
Michelle Monaghan (Rachel) Rosario Dawson (Zoe) Michael Chiklis (Callister) Anthony Mackie (Scott) and Billy Bob Thornton (Morgan)." as an F.B.I. agent is an entertaining fountain of profane folksiness. And Mr. Caruso who showed some decent genre chops in “Disturbia” (also starring Mr. LaBeouf) executes some of the action sequences with flair and agility." so good. The principals are a bit confused about what’s happening to them and so is the audience but that’s as it should be. Are Jerry and Rachel who have been receiving menacing phone calls from a mysterious woman with an accentless affectless voice patsies in a terrorist conspiracy?" at the movies more is less. For a while this hectic thriller directed by D. J. Caruso hums along efficiently if none too coherently. Some stuff blows up in Afghanistan and then a lot of cars flip over in Chicago while two interestingly mismatched pairs of actors with excellent breath control conduct heated arguments on a dead run." ” which confined itself to a single set and one basic narrative problem — is the guy next door a serial killer? — “Eagle Eye” churns and flails and piles on pointless and improbable complications. Jerry has a dead twin brother. Rachel’s son plays the trumpet. There’s a top-secret explosive weapon and a top-secret computer application and a top-secret contingency plan to overthrow the government." you will no longer care. You will instead most likely be occupied in the sleep-delaying exercise of listing all the simpler better movies this one resembles and in whose company it might have belonged." as a scruffy slacker named Jerry is thrown together with Michelle Monaghan an anxious single mom named Rachel. Meanwhile Billy Bob Thornton and Rosario Dawson to my mind a far more charismatic duo flash badges and guns and quarrel about jurisdiction." but no sex or gore or really bad language." there is some obligatory mock-topical chatter (“blah blah blah Patriot Act blah blah blah Orange Alert blah blah blah cyberterrorism”) which far from adding to the atmosphere of tension and suspense only emphasizes just how farcical and harebrained this movie is." but then again why would a terrorist organization with the capacity to hack into cellphone lines construction cranes city buses and security cameras need to mess with stressed-out ordinary citizens? Maybe it’s not terrorism at all but some kind of government conspiracy. Or maybe ..." Travis Adam Wright Hillary Seitz and Dan McDermott based on a story by Mr. McDermott; director of photography Dariusz Wolski; edited by Jim Page; music by Brian Tyler; production designer Tom Sanders; produced by Alex Kurtzman Roberto Orci and Patrick Crowley; released by DreamWorks/Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes." 
6784
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26wild.html
Jody Lee Lipes; edited by Lance Edmands; produced by Ben Howe Kyle Martin and Mr. Wolf; released by Plexifilm. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 10 minutes. This film is not rated." ” a tender fascinating documentary by Matt Wolf will delight the cult and instantly convert new members. And it will probably  increase record sales too. It’s impossible to hear  his  strange soulful music without wanting to hear more immediately preferably on high-end headphones somewhere glamorously desolate: the rim of a volcano a moldy loft in Bushwick Brooklyn; sand dunes in December." a prolific extravagantly gifted artist who died of AIDS in 1992 at 40 fused minimalist drone to ethereal melody cello thrum to warbling vocals downtown braininess to universal pop. A seminal figure in the alternative New York music scene of the 1970s and ’80s he  was little known outside coterie circles until the rerelease of his vast output in recent years." a middle-class resident of Oskaloosa Iowa Russell made music “you can’t really tap your foot to ” though clubgoers in the 1980s grooving to his weird inspired dance tracks would disagree." 
6785
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26clas.html
which appeared in The New York Times on Sept. 26." prickly man is François Bégaudeau who wrote the autobiographical novel on which the movie is based. (In France the original title for both is “Between the Walls.”) Like the students the administrators and other teachers — all culled from the same school in the 20th — Mr. Bégaudeau is playing a fictionalized version of himself developed through weekly workshops improvisations and a shoot  that lasted a full academic year. Like Mr. Cantet’s shooting  style in this movie he initially comes across as free-flowing even loose a guy whose jocular teasing suggests that he wants to be seen more as a friend than as an authority figure one of us rather than one of them." though these issues run through it like a powerful current keeping the children and adults (and the filmmaking) on edge. Rather the director Laurent Cantet — using a small team and three high-definition video cameras — keeps a steady eye on the children these anxious maddening little people flailing and sometimes stalling on the entryway to adulthood. He shows them giggling arguing boldly and shyly answering questions. He marks their victories and failures and with brutal calm shares some of the other lessons schoolchildren learn on their way to the office factory shop unemployment line and perhaps even prison: sit down raise your hand stand up get in line keep quiet." ” an artful intelligent movie about modern French identity and the attempt to transform those bodies into citizens through talk talk talk come in all sizes shapes and colors. With their cellphones and pouts these bored restless junior high students look pretty much like the fidgety progeny of Anytown U.S.A. One difference being that these African Arab and Asian Parisians live in a country that insists its citizens have only one cultural identity even if it is an identity— as France’s smoldering suburbs vividly suggest  — many of these same young people don’t feel welcome to share." Mr. Cantet who shares the screenwriting credit with Mr. Bégaudeau and Robin Campillo tends to keep his ideas more strategically nestled in the unassuming guise of a documentary-inflected realism that plays a lot like life because that’s precisely where it comes from. Here Mr. Cantet — whose earlier features include “Human Resources” and “Time Out ” two other dramas about systems of power — has done that rarest of things in movies about children: He has allowed them to talk. There’s no question that he’s occasionally overeager to speak on their behalf but he’s listening too engaged in a conversation that’s as urgently necessary in this country as it is in France. And just in case you don’t have a festival ticket rest easy: “The Class” will open later this year." Wei Huang (Wei) Esméralda Ouertani (Sandra) and Franck Keïta (Souleymane)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Cantet François Bégaudeau and Robin Campillo based on the novel “Entre les Murs” (“Between the Walls”) by Mr. Bégaudeau; directors of photography Pierre Milon Catherine Pujol and Georgi Lazarevski; edited by Ms. Campillo and Stéphanie Léger; produced by Carole Scotta Caroline Benjo Barbara Letellier and Simon Arnal; released by Sony Pictures Classics. At Avery Fisher Hall Lincoln Center as part of the 46th New York Film Festival. Running time: 2 hours 8 minutes. This film is not rated." which proves this classroom’s most difficult painful lesson. Over the course of the year François pushes and prods at his students encouraging a bashful Chinese boy Wei (Wei Huang) and trying to navigate around two pint-size terrors — a lippy Arab girl Sandra (Esméralda Ouertani) and a belligerent African heartbreaker Souleymane (Franck Keïta) — who test his patience with unsettling effectiveness. Souleymane son of Malian immigrants flashes some Arabic tattooed on his arm challenging everyone with the barely suppressed rage that radiates off him at times like a fever. Sandra meanwhile in one of the story’s few false notes announces that she has read “The Republic” on her own time a revelation that feels more directed at the audience’s prejudices than at François’s." the story unfolds almost entirely inside a school in the working-class fast-gentrifying 20th arrondissement a residential district on the city’s farthermost eastern edge. You don’t see much of the neighborhood (its most famous residents are taking the big sleep in the Père-Lachaise Cemetery) though you do get to know several dozen of its younger inhabitants. A rainbow coalition of sullen boys and mouthy girls ages 13 and 14 the students are meant to be learning the finer points of the French language parsing the differences between the passé composé and the imparfait distinctions that seem nearly as foreign to them as does the reedy young teacher down in front." but “The Class” slides its points in at an angle letting them emerge from the children’s chatter instead of hanging its politics around these tender necks like placards. For audiences accustomed to big-screen pedagogical imperatives soaked in guilt and deep-fried in piety this makes for an exotic change (though the HBO show “The Wire” covered similar ground) and might sound perilously dry. But “The Class ” which won the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival in May and opens the New York Film Festival on Friday night is as much an emotional experience as a head trip. Mr. Cantet would prefer you to think (he is a French filmmaker after all) but he’s enough of an entertainer to milk an occasional tear." 
6786
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26atwa.html
this riveting  documentary about the Republican operative (who died of a brain tumor in 1991) reveals a scrappy genius rife with contradictions:   a blues player and friend of B. B. King who  is said to have  engineered the infamous  1988 Willie Horton ad; a proud Southerner who cynically manipulated his region’s  distrust of Eastern elites. Barbara Bush hated his vulgarity but her husband and son are indebted to it and one interviewee suggests that  President Ronald Reagan might have followed his terms in the White House with one in the  big house had it not been for Mr. Atwater’s intervention." “Boogie Man” shines a sickening spotlight on a thriving political strategy suggesting that the devil may indeed have all the best tunes." Mr. Forbes; music by Mr. Forbes and Tim Robert; produced by Mr. Forbes and Noland Walker; released by InterPositive Media. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." friends and political roadkill — a jocular Sam Donaldson an emotional Ed Rollins a pained Michael Dukakis — evince a mixture of reverence and repulsion but “Boogie Man” is neither encomium nor hatchet job. Instead the director Stefan Forbes assembles a wealth of found footage into a Gordian portrait of a man whose ability to do the splits exceeded the physical." 
6787
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26shoo.html
the movie’s lack of subtlety is countered by an unswerving commitment to impartiality. Characterization may be superficial but it isn’t bigoted and the director Jag Mundhra finds space between his broad strokes to hint at the smaller — but equally destabilizing — frictions between Tariq’s white wife (Greta Scacchi) and his Muslim friends." which also addressed the conflicts of Britain’s assimilated Muslims soared on Hanif Kureishi’s uncommonly nuanced screenplay. “Shoot on Sight” reminds us how much we need that nuance now." swearing and racist remarks." Madhu Ambat; edited by Sanjeev Mirajkar; music by John Altman; production designer Roger Harris; produced by Aron Govil; released by Aron Govil Productions. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." the movie is gamely shouldered by Naseeruddin Shah as Tariq a Muslim police officer heading an internal investigation into the questionable shooting of a suspected terrorist. Weary of face and honest of character Tariq is alternately buffeted by a media-fearful boss (Brian Cox) and a boyhood friend turned religious fanatic (Om Puri)." Brian Cox (Tennant) Greta Scacchi (Susan Ali) and Om Puri (Junaid)." “Shoot on Sight” is an earnest melodrama that struggles to surmount its good intentions." 
6788
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26ripp.html
whose previous claim to fame was making a movie (“Hollywood Buddha”) about his inability to sell an earlier movie (“Dead Girl”) somehow persuaded a few respectable stars to sign on to his latest project “Ripple Effect.” But there’s only so much they can do with his script which starts with a not-very-original insight and takes too many shortcuts delivering it." Virginia Madsen (Sherry) Minnie Driver (Kitty) and Philippe Caland (Amer)." a fashion designer whose business is going badly and whose wife (Virginia Madsen) is sad and whiny. Amer decides that all this bad karma is emanating from a car accident 15 years earlier in which he struck a pedestrian who ended up in a wheelchair." produced and directed by Philippe Caland; director of photography Daron Keet; edited by Joseph Semense and Yvan Gauthier; production designer Shirley Leong; music by Anthony Marinelli; released by Monterey Media. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes." delivering a convincing tirade when she learns that her husband and the man who left him unable to walk have become friends." whose hot wife (Minnie Driver)  picks up men with her husband’s permission. Some hidden truths about the accident come out as does Mr. Caland’s point which is of the butterfly-flaps-its-wings variety: events and the people involved in them are linked to other events in cosmic ways or something like that." 
6789
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26obsc.html
Alexander Meillier; edited by Tanya Ager Meillier; music by Askold Buk; produced by Mr. Ortenberg Mr. O’Connor Ms. Meillier and Mr. Meillier; released by Arthouse Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." viewed primarily through the gimlet eyes of its instigator. Mr. Rosset’s remorseless crusade against obscenity laws and his championing of the avant-garde would bring Allen Ginsberg Henry Miller and William Burroughs to American bookstores and “I Am Curious (Yellow)” to movie theaters. It also brought death threats bomb attacks government surveillance and near-penury to its indefatigable sponsor a feisty octogenarian whose backbone was honed during World War II as a military photographer alongside Frank Capra and John Huston." the colorful publisher of  Screw magazine  and no stranger to litigation himself “Obscene” is a warm entertaining compendium of counterculture voices (including Jim Carroll and Amiri Baraka) and literary landmarks. It’s the story of a man who follows his own drummer — usually with rum and Coke in hand — and believes in “nourishing the accidental.” We should all be grateful that he does." the pioneering founder of Grove Press and The Evergreen Review you might never have been able to hide that copy of “Lady Chatterley’s Lover” from your parents or plaster that ubiquitous    poster of Che Guevara on your dorm-room wall. And while those might not seem like the most critical rites of passage they’re the result of nothing less than a cultural earthquake." 
6790
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26stro.html
that field is his arena to vent against a spineless mother (Julie Warner) and an angry coach and father (Neal McDonough). A belligerent player and all-round pill Rick is in dire need of an attitude intervention.  So when the time-honored convergence of beer convertible and hot chick lands him in juvie he is on the road to learning more than just how to clean a toilet and smuggle Vicodin." plotted by machine and acted on cruise control “Forever Strong” stages an all-too-familiar teenage morality play on the churned earth of a high school rugby field in Salt Lake City." Sean Faris (Rick Penning) Arielle Kebbel (Emily) Sean Astin (Marcus Tate) Neal McDonough (Coach Richard Penning) Penn Badgley (Lars) Julie Warner (Natalie Penning) Nathan West (Quentin) Michael J. Pagan (Kurt) and Max Kasch (Griggs)." T. C. Christensen; edited by John Lyde; music by J. Bateman and Bart Hendrickson; production designer Gary Sivertsen; produced by Adam Abel; released by Crane Movie Company. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes." cans and  one another." “Forever Strong” operates at the subbasement level of sports as therapy smashing bodies and jerking tears at rigidly timed intervals. As Rick under the moral tutelage of Coach  Larry Gelwix (Gary Cole) and his former rivals learns to replace drinking drugs and women with prayer circles community service and Maori chants the virility of the scrum becomes a spiritual rite of passage." 
6791
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26roda.html
given junky embarrassments like “Nights in Rodanthe.” There’s no joy and not even much cruel laughter to be had from the spectacle of sympathetic actors — Richard Gere Diane Lane Viola Davis James Franco  — mouthing some of the most pitiful platitudinous risible dialogue in recent memory particularly if you were suckered into  watching this movie specifically because of its performers. Even those with a high tolerance for melodramatic drivel who have stuck by Sandra Bullock through thick thin and her changing smile or found themselves sniffling at “The Notebook” yet again because well Ryan Gosling and Rachel McAdams should be together will find “Rodanthe” insulting an assault on their already perilously weakened romantic hearts." but it also gave as much as it took delivering the pleasurable goods along with the pain. The emotions were as phony as the tears yet with the right director star or script all that weeping could send an arrow straight through your heart. The audience worshiped Our Lady of Masochism for her misery but also for her triumph for the mink swaddling her shoulder pads for the 100 sobbing violins for the celestial halo circling her head. She was a glamorous sacrament a delectable offering for the big-screen faithful." delicate lovemaking pop-song montage. Ms. Lane and Mr. Gere smile bravely and fumble like teenagers but are defeated by the scripted clichés and lack of focused direction. Mr. Wolfe seems as uncomfortable with the material as his leads are though it’s impossible to know if he’s uninterested in this romance or whether his disjointed storytelling is a result of post-production triage." Diane Lane (Adrienne) Scott Glenn (Robert) Christopher Meloni (Jack) Viola Davis (Jean) and James Franco (Mark)." it’s a shame that beautiful movie suffering has gone the way of the durable hack the kind of studio lifer who knew that action meant you know action and came equipped with a cinematographer who could turn light and shadow and all those glistening tears into a night to remember." who fared better with his HBO movie “Lackawanna Blues”) “Nights in Rodanthe” revolves around the unhappily married Adrienne (Ms. Lane) who leaves her two nauseating children with her husband to baby-sit a North Carolina coastal inn owned by a friend (Ms. Davis) who has gone off for weekend sex with a muscled bit player. A hurricane is a-coming and so is Paul (Mr. Gere) one of those lonely Jaguar-driving geniuses of the operating room. The hurricane hits and the shutters bang open and shut which would be funnier if this film didn’t insist that the only road to a woman’s happiness runs up her legs." based on the novel by Nicholas Sparks; director of photography Affonso Beato; edited by Brian A. Kates; music by Jeanine Tesori; production designer Patrizia von Brandenstein; produced by Denise Di Novi; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." 
6792
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26raqu.html
by Olaf de Fleur Johannesson stars and is a half-true documentary about Raquela Rios a Filipino ladyboy as she calls herself: a man who dresses acts like and feels like a woman. The “half-true” part is troublesome. The title character plays herself and some of what you see is her actual life but other parts are invented and staged. “Visiomentary ” the filmmaker calls this technique of blending fact and fiction; he has said the film is about 50 percent of each." Thai English and Icelandic with English subtitles) and directed by Olaf de Fleur Johannesson; director of photography Butch Maddul; edited by Dagur Kari and Mr.  de Fleur Johannesson; music by Pavel E. Smid; production designer Alexis Yap; produced by Mr.  de Fleur Johannesson Arleen Cuevas Stefan C.  Schaefer and Helgi Sverrisson; released by Regent Releasing/Here! Films. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes." unusual take on it. The question is whether anyone else will. The answer is: Probably not." Stefan C.  Schaefer (Michael Ardilo) Brax Villa (Aubrey) Olivia Galudo (Via) Valerie Grand Einarsson (Valerie) and May Rose (May Rosaria)." a little nudity and the general subject matter." though it doesn’t matter that you can’t tell what’s real and what isn’t because none of it is very involving. Raquela walks the streets in the Philippines goes to Iceland becomes involved with an Internet pornographer and finally gets a man to take her to Paris her longstanding dream." but that is difficult when we spend so much time listening to Raquela and her friends going on about their micro-problems — with love sex clothes unrealized plans — an orgy of self-absorption that can only be irritating to anyone with more pressing concerns. It’s like being trapped in a roomful of teenage girls for 80 minutes." 
6793
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26mira.html
which starts as film noir and winds up flooding “Miracle at St. Anna” with sentimentality supernaturalism and distracting cameos (from John Leguizamo John Turturro and Kerry Washington among others) is muddled and unconvincing. Luckily though the case of the headless statue does not really have much bearing on the film’s two main narrative strands which concern the intertwined fates of a band of Italian partisans and a group of  soldiers  from the Army’s all-black 92nd Division in a Tuscan hill town in 1944." in its own way riven by political conflict as erstwhile Fascist sympathizers share food shelter and kinship ties with die-hard partisans. This part of “Miracle  at St. Anna ” with its themes of vengeance treachery and honor is a reminder of Mr. Lee’s longstanding frequently ambivalent fascination with all things Italian including the work of Italian and Italian-American filmmakers." ” directed by Spike Lee and based on a novel by James McBride who wrote the screenplay exists in part to make the obvious overdue point that men like Hector (Laz Alonso) — Latino and in particular African-American soldiers — fought as bravely and as hard as the characters in those Hollywood combat epics. But setting the record straight after so many years and so many movies is not necessarily a simple undertaking and this film sometimes stumbles under its heavy self-imposed burden of historical significance." which take place in New York in 1983 lay out a murder mystery to be unraveled in the wartime flashbacks that make up most of the movie. (To make matters even more baroque there are flashbacks inside  these flashbacks.) One day at the post office Hector Negron shoots down a customer who has come to buy a stamp. Eager to discover why a scoop-hungry young reporter (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) finds a broken piece of statue among Negron’s belongings. This object is either the key to the whole story or one of the biggest cinematic red herrings since “The Maltese Falcon.”" nudity and graphic violence." whose “Days of Glory” followed Arab soldiers fighting for France against the Nazis Mr. Lee sticks to the sturdy conventions of the infantry movie adapting old-fashioned techniques to an unfamiliar neglected story. And the cinematic traditionalism of “Miracle at St. Anna” is perhaps its most satisfying trait. At its best this is a platoon picture and if it’s not exactly like the ones Hollywood made in the late  ’50s and early  ’60s that’s part of Mr. Lee’s argument: it’s the movie someone should have had the guts or the vision to make back then. Better late than never." the action slows down to make time for a speech or a carefully staged argument about racial injustice. But if you’re tempted to roll your eyes recall that such speeches — on the subjects of liberty and democracy and the mortal threat to those ideals posed by Hitler and his army — have always been a staple of all but the most hardboiled and cynical World War II movies. And in this one as in “Days of Glory ” the high-minded talk and theme-announcing scenes illuminate a thorny and crucial paradox namely that the countries fighting against totalitarian race-hatred had some serious race problems of their own." and in the ideological and social diversity that exists within black America. Like Mookie and Buggin’ Out in “Do the Right Thing” (or indeed like Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. that movie’s uneasily twinned emblems of resistance) Stamps and Cummings represent different responses to the challenges of racism. They argue about tactics politics and the trustworthiness of white people and also become rivals for the favor of Renata (Valentina Cervi)." ” the sprawling 1962 World War II drama starring John Wayne and nearly every other white movie star of the era and it provokes a bitter reaction. “We served our country too ” says the viewer a postal worker and Army veteran named Hector Negron." “Miracle  at St. Anna” would not be as rich as it is. But it would also be shorter and more coherent. In its current form there is too much going on — five or six different movies squeezed awkwardly into a little more than two and a half hours some enlivened by Terence Blanchard’s lush and mournful score some drowned in it." Michael Ealy (Bishop Cummings) Laz Alonso (Hector Negron) Omar Benson Miller (Sam Train) Pierfrancesco Favino (Peppi Grotta) Valentina Cervi (Renata) Matteo Sciabordi (Angelo) John Turturro (Detective Ricci) Joseph Gordon-Levitt (Tim Boyle) John Leguizamo (Enrico) Kerry Washington (Zana Wilder) D. B. Sweeney (Colonel Driscoll) and Robert John Burke (General Almond)." who have slipped through the German lines are with respect to temperament and background at least as various as the melting-pot dogface units of the old infantry flicks. In addition to Negron who is Puerto Rican and Roman Catholic there is Sam Train (Omar Benson Miller) a big gentle superstitious  Southerner — a kind of holy innocent in hellish circumstances. His friendship with an Italian boy named Angelo (Matteo Sciabordi) is one of the film’s more improbable elements and also its sweetest." who is disciplined idealistic and forward looking and the cynical fatalistic Sgt. Bishop Cummings (Michael Ealy) whose gold tooth and rough talk mark him as a streetwise foil for Stamps’s stiff-backed righteousness." moving human story. Not a miracle by any means but an earthy inquiry into death duty friendship and honor. What we’ve always wanted from war movies." based on his novel; director of photography Matthew Libatique; edited by Barry Alexander Brown; music by Terence Blanchard; production designer Tonino Zera; produced by Roberto Cicutto Luigi Musini and Mr. Lee; released by Touchstone Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 40 minutes." an obvious debt is to Roberto Rossellini whose “Paisan” is one of the few World War II movies from the 1940s to address the experiences of African-American G.I.’s. But “Miracle at St. Anna ” produced with Italian financing is hardly the first Spike Lee Italian joint. It is rather the latest in a series of thorny intercultural love stories that stretches back to “Do the Right Thing” and through “Jungle Fever” and “Summer of Sam.”" 
6794
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26luck.html
Declan Quinn; edited by Naomi Geraghty; music by Rolfe Kent; production designers Jan Roelfs and Leslie Pope; produced by Mr. Burger Brian Koppelman David Levien and Rick Schwartz; released by Lionsgate and Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." Fred Cheever (a refreshingly restrained Tim Robbins) can’t wait to see his wife and son in St. Louis but the reunion turns out to be teary for unforeseen reasons. Colee Dunn (Rachel McAdams luminous as always) on a 30-day leave after being shot in the leg is on her way to Las Vegas to pay an unannounced visit to her dead boyfriend’s parents. More than a few surprises await her as well but nothing can beat down her determinedly sunny outlook on life. T. K. Poole (Michael Peña) also recently wounded and headed for Las Vegas dreads informing his fiancée that a piece of shrapnel has left him impotent." brief violence and sexual content." Tim Robbins (Fred Cheever) and Michael Peña (T. K. Poole)." some touching others laughably contrived (a sudden completely phony-looking tornado being the most absurd). But because the lead actors work so well together adding depth and levels of vulnerability to fairly underwritten roles the emotional consequences of the sense of displacement these “lucky” characters — lucky to be alive lucky to have met one another — must deal with always ring true." ” a bittersweet comedy about three seemingly dissimilar American soldiers who embark on a road trip after their flights home are canceled is the latest in a string of films inspired by the war in Iraq. But this one written by Neil Burger and Dirk Wittenborn and directed by Mr. Burger has little interest in making bold pro- or antiwar proclamations." light touch (though not without bumps and awkward moments) it focuses instead on the idea that the present and the people who factor into it are all we really have. Aside from the opening the only combat scenes to be found here are strictly domestic and in terms of its lead characters internal." 
6795
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/26/movies/26chok.html
who wrote the screenplay “Choke” is a comedy marinated in the aesthetic of cooler-than-thou irony and hip transgression. But except for a couple of hilarious riffs its jokes are not laugh-out-loud funny. The movie prods you to smirk and maybe gasp at its subversive imagination. As it toys with nihilism and hurls poisoned darts at religion medicine and self-help it adds up to  an entertaining collection of vignettes strung together by a sarcastic loudmouth whose heart is breaking under his sophomoric bravado." headstrong younger Ida and  the frail but still-demanding older woman who mistakes  Victor for everyone but himself when he visits Ms. Huston gives a compelling  portrayal of someone whose mind may be shredded but whose ferocious willpower remains undiminished." and the atavistic male need stymied by modern civilization to vent antisocial aggression and to conquer simply for the visceral thrill of it. “Fight Club” focused on ritualized extreme fighting and its homoerotic subtext;  “Choke” focuses on zipless sex which the movie convincingly portrays as compulsive coupling without an iota of joy. Victor who attends 12-step meetings for sex addiction with his best friend Denny (Brad William Henke) is just beginning the fourth step which involves taking an inventory of his life. The movie is that inventory." concealing his hurt under  layers of defiance sarcasm and feigned indifference. Mr. Rockwell makes you see all the layers as well as feel the pain that lies beneath." the angelic too-good-to-be-true doctor treating the worsening dementia of his mother Ida (Angelica Huston).  As the rumor of Victor’s divine origins spreads among the elderly female patients in the dreary mental hospital he becomes an object of worship." ” the second film adapted from a novel by the “Fight Club” author Chuck Palahniuk requires that you dive through the looking glass into a labyrinth where personal identity is fluid. At one point its cheerfully snarky narrator and self-proclaimed sex addict Victor Mancini (Sam Rockwell) is half-convinced that he is cloned from tissue taken from the foreskin of a holy relic.  Might he be the son of the son of the Son of God?" an 18th-century theme park where Victor impersonates an Irish indentured servant. The humiliating work requires them to wear period costumes speak in archaic language and eliminate any telltale indications of contemporaneity from their behavior. Mr. Gregg has an amusing cameo as Lord High Charlie the humorless fanatically strict manager of this fake community who stays in character even when he is not working." Victor hits him up for a handout. You might think that the man whose life was saved would be the one to offer a reward but in Mr. Palahniuk’s world of endless role playing it is the other way around." it continually returns to the relationship of Victor and Ida a twisted mother-son bond that recalls Ms. Huston and John Cusack’s power struggle in “The Grifters” bent through several hoops. Flashbacks reveal a pattern in which Ida repeatedly kidnapped Victor from the foster homes in which he had been placed. No wonder he has abandonment issues." based on the novel by Chuck Palahniuk; director of photography Tim Orr; edited by Joe Klotz; music by Nathan Larson; production designer Roshelle Berliner; produced by Beau Flynn Tripp Vinson Johnathan Dorfman and Temple Fennell; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." he has no trouble finding sexual partners. During 12-step meetings he and Nico (Paz de la Huerta) a fellow sex addict slip away to get it on on  a bathroom floor. In the movie’s funniest scene Victor hooks up with a computer date whose elaborately detailed rape fantasy is a control freak’s recipe for not really losing control. Denny whose sexual opportunities are fewer ultimately falls in love with Cherry Daiquiri (Gillian Jacobs) a stripper who changes her name to Beth." Anjelica Huston (Ida J. Mancini) Kelly Macdonald (Paige Marshall) Brad William Henke (Denny) Jonah Bobo (Young Victor) Paz de la Huerta (Nico) and Gillian Jacobs (Cherry Daiquiri)." 
6796
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/24/movies/24sile.html
but it’s the sheer intensity of this belief — which he confirms with every camera movement — that invests his film with such feeling. This stubborn passionate intensity is evident in the mesmerizing transporting opener in which the seemingly unmoored camera traces a downward arc across a nearly pitch-black night sky dotted with starry pinpricks. Accompanied by an unsettling chorus of animal cries and screams (what’s going on in there?) the camera descends from its cosmic perch into the brightening world and then as if parting a curtain moves through some trees onto a clearing that effectively becomes the stage for the ensuing human drama." January 7 at Film Forum.""Silent Light" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reygadas retrospective at MoMA. It opens Wednesday January 7 at Film Forum.""ilent Light" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reygadas retrospective at MoMA. It opens Wednesday January 7 at""lent Light" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reygadas retrospective at MoMA. It opens Wednesday Ja""ent Light" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reygadas retrospective at MoMA. It opens Wed""nt Light" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reygadas retrospective at MoMA. It ""t Light" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reygadas retrospective at M"" Light" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reygadas retrospecti""Light" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reygadas retro""ight" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reygadas ""ght" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Reyga""ht" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos Re""t" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos """ was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos"" was originally reviewed in September when it screened as part of a Carlos" self-conscious debt to Carl Theodor Dreyer’s eccentric 1955 masterpiece “Ordet ” another story about faith and love the new film also recalls some of the more pastoral passages in Terrence Malick’s “New World ” yet another tour de force about love and faith (in other people in the cinematic image). In one of the loveliest sequences in “Silent Light ” Johan’s family idles in and around a creek that serves as its communal bathing pool. As some of the children drift languorously in the water their bodies modestly covered and blond heads floating like lilies the parents tenderly wash the younger ones scrubbing one child’s head with soap massaging another’s feet with oil and exchanging small endearments and instructions." or Mennonite Low German with English subtitles) and directed by Carlos Reygadas; director of photography Alexis Zabe; edited by Natalia López; art director Nohemi Gonzalez; produced by Mr. Reygadas and Jaime Romandia. At Film Forum 209 W Houston St Manhattan. Running time: 2 hours. This film is not rated." spilling over the austere land and illuminating its pale pale people as if from within. A fictional story about everyday rapture in an isolated Mennonite community in northern Mexico — and performed by a cast of mostly Mennonite nonprofessionals — the film was written directed and somehow willed into unlikely existence by the extravagantly talented Carlos Reygadas whose immersion in this exotic world feels so deep and true that it seems like an act of faith." while Esther waits on the sidelines of their life with her unquiet eyes tending the children keeping the house and driving the family tractor Johan explores the limits of his faith and his faithfulness. He nuzzles Marianne on a windswept hill yellow flowers bobbing at their feet and makes sweaty love to her in a small white room that looks like a chapel. (Afterward a leaf enigmatically portentously falls from the ceiling.) He seeks advice from his father (Mr. Wall Fehr’s  own father Peter Wall) and clandestinely finds Marianne’s hand while in a moment of ordinary surrealism they watch black-and-white television images of the Belgian chanteur  Jacques Brel drenched in sweat and emotion and warbling about bonbons and l’amour." you will be hooked as much in thrall to the harmonious beauty of the images as to the foreignness of their setting. Yet strange as this world initially seems with its quiet rhythms and obscure German dialect its conflicts soon prove familiar: Johan (Cornelio Wall Fehr) a farmer with seven towheaded children and a devoted wife Esther (the Canadian writer Miriam Toews) has fallen in love with another woman a neighbor Marianne (Maria Pankratz). Though tormented by the affair Johan feels that Marianne is his truer match the woman who will correct the mistake he made by marrying Esther whom he also loves and from whom he has with tragic unintended cruelty hidden nothing." innocent yet sensuous scene a glimpse of the prelapsarian with a hint of the viper that Mr. Reygadas closes with a shot of a pink blossom an image that begins as a blur of color and gently comes into focus. He holds on the image a few beats — much as he often does — not only because I imagine he wants us to appreciate its metaphoric resonance but also because he wants us to see its glory. There are a handful of ways to understand the meaning of “Silent Light ” words that I read as an allusion to love but this is also very much a film about that ordinary light that sometimes still passes through a camera and creates something divine." “Japón” (2002) and assaultive provocations in his second “Battle in Heaven” (2005) which opens with the kind of sexual encounter that keeps nunneries in business Mr. Reygadas has quietly altered his visual style to brilliant and meaningful effect. His silky camera movements and harmoniously balanced widescreen compositions still enthrall but he now comes across as less committed to his own virtuosity and more invested in finding images — of children bathing trees rustling clouds passing — that offer a truer sense of the world than is found in melodramatic bloodletting." Maria Pankratz (Marianne) Miriam Toews (Esther) Peter Wall (Padre) and Jacobo Klassen (Zacarias)." 
6797
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/22/movies/22man.html
“The Man From London” is a kind of slow-motion film noir about a railway worker (Miroslav Krobot as Maloin) who stumbles over a suitcase stuffed with money. But this is true only in the sense that a cubist still life is “about” a mandolin. The movie is really about a manner of looking at things exploring space in unexpected ways meditating on qualities of light and the surface of objects." conceptually demanding film." Tilda Swinton (Camélia) Agi Szirtes (Mrs. Brown) Janos Derzsi (Brown) Erika Bok (Henriette) and Gyula Pauer (Tapster)." in which the actors speaking Hungarian for the most part have all been dubbed into French with English subtitles. On the other hand this linguistic distraction does contribute to the over-all alienation. Mr. Tarr’s chilly tour de force is to be understood as art all right. Bloated formalist art." getting their story under way would take a minute or so to establish this information and set a tone. Mr. Tarr distends his slight narrative sequence into an elaborate lugubrious arabesque of expanding and collapsing perspectives drifting in a single shot from a close-up detail of human interactions to the languid contemplation of a ship’s hull out to a macroview of the entire tableau before moving in (slowly slowly) to frame another exquisitely choreographed gesture. And then back out. Repeat. For 10 minutes." closely related in style and technique to these three can be seen in a basement space of MoMA: “The Man From London” by Bela Tarr." with English subtitles) by Mr. Tarr and Laszlo Krasznahorkai based on the novel by Georges Simenon; director of photography Fred Kelemen; edited by Agnes Hranitzky; music by Mihaly Vig; production designers Jean-Pascal Chalard Ms. Hranitzky and Laszlo Rajk; produced by Humbert Balsan Christoph Hahnheiser Paul Saadoun Gabor Teni and Joachim von Vietinghoff. At the Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 2 hour 12 minutes. This film is not rated." ” I mean them strictly in the most dispassionate sense nothing that would imply emotion credible characters or engaging drama. Mr. Tarr lavishes tremendous visual energy on Maloin his inscrutable protagonist but hasn’t so much as lifted a pinky to make us care about his melancholy quandary. In those rare moments when the script calls for an eruption of feeling (as when Maloin argues with his wife played by a zombified Tilda Swinton) Mr. Tarr simply treats it in his complicated way as just another motif." 
6798
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/20/movies/20best.html
exceedingly crude “emotional terrorist” (as his longtime friend and roommate Dustin played by Jason Biggs calls him) who makes extra cash taking girls on the worst date of their life in order to prompt them to race back to their exes who now don’t look so bad after all. Oh and he secretly cries while watching “Ghost.”" but speedy pacing and a smattering of laughs along the way as well as a knowing turn by Alec Baldwin as Tank’s even more piggish father make “My Best Friend’s Girl ” directed by Howard Deutch a date not entirely to be skipped. It’s a movie tailor-made for those who think it’s a turn-on to passionately kiss someone to whom they’ve just said “I hate you.”" pervasive crass humor and sexual content including brief male nudity." a strait-laced sap (though with an extensive pornography collection) employs his services when he is dumped by Alexis (Ms. Hudson on autopilot with her usual ditsy shtick) a legal associate he springs the love word on after only five weeks of casual dating. Guess whom she ends up falling for?" a racy comedy which aims to be tasteless (it often is) and romantic (it mostly isn’t)." Jack N. Green; edited by Seth Flaum; music by John Debney; production designer Jane Ann Stewart; produced by Adam Herz Gregory Lessans Josh Shader Guymon Casady Doug Johnson Barry Katz and Brian Volk-Weiss; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." Kate Hudson (Alexis) Jason Biggs (Dustin) Lizzy Caplan (Ami) and Alec Baldwin (Professor Turner)." 
6799
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19fath.html
Mr. Ying brilliantly evokes an off-screen life filled with random violence and lively conversations a world outside the frame as rich as the one inside. But when the noise finally  quiets and everything falls away there’s nothing left except a boy his father and an anger neither can control." he sets out to fetch the wayward father who abandoned him six years earlier. Armed with only a vague address and a pair of placid geese in lieu of cash Yun heads for the big city of Zigong and a closure he may not even know he needs." with English subtitles) by Ying Liang and Peng Shan; directors of photography Li Rongshen and Ying Liang; music by Zhang Xiao; art directors Ying Liang and Peng Shan; produced by 90 Minutes Film Studio; released by Tidepoint Pictures. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." “Taking Father Home” immerses us in the sights and sounds of a city in flux the constant intrusion of background noise paralleling Yun’s volatile emotions with the political and environmental upheavals of his country. Loudspeakers blare propaganda and police updates and repeated warnings of an approaching flood add an ominous undercurrent of inescapable catastrophe." Liu Xiaopei (Policeman Liu) Wang Jie (Scar) Song Cijun (Xu Er) Chen Xikun (Mama) and Liu Ying (Girlfriend)." ” the debut feature of the Chinese director Ying Liang is a poetic study of resolve and revenge. It is also a stunning introduction to a rare new talent." 
6800
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19ghos.html
Bertram Pincus (Mr. Gervais) is a grumpy transplanted Briton who declares that he doesn’t mind crowds just the people in them and shuts up his yammering patients by stuffing dental equipment in their mouths. Bertram is extremely annoyed when after a seven-minute near-death experience during a routine colonoscopy he suddenly finds himself a middleman  between the living and the dead." directed by David Koepp (screenwriter of Spielberg blockbusters) from a script he wrote with John Kamps. A latter-day hybrid of “Topper” and “Blithe Spirit” and a visual ode to autumn in New York “Ghost Town” is a screwball comedy with no big surprises or hidden metaphors. But if you comb through the ranks of recent Hollywood comedies that have tried to conjure the same mood of airy amusement most of what you’ll find are strained witless duds that get mired in sentimentality like flies in molasses." a roguish ghost and a zany Egyptologist: as these unlikely companions  scamper around Manhattan in the buoyant comedy “Ghost Town ” they resurrect the spirits of classic movie curmudgeons like W. C. Fields and such romantic comedians as Cary Grant and Carole Lombard in Woody Allen territory." which knocks her over now and again and whose odor triggers Bertram’s gag reflex and a priceless mummy that is a centerpiece of a major exhibition she is putting together Gwen solicits Bertram to conduct a professional examination of the mummy’s mouth." they pester him to take care of their unfinished business; only then can they happily disappear into the hereafter. As the living overhear him talking to the dead the usual crossed signals and misunderstandings land him in trouble but the movie doesn’t overdo it." a slick yuppie go-getter with a cheating heart who in an early scene is struck by a bus while running away from a falling air-conditioner. Frank entreats Bertram to prevent his widow Gwen (Ms. Leoni) from marrying Richard (Billy Campbell) a human-rights lawyer he believes is after her money although the evidence he offers is flimsy. Gwen happens to live in the same Upper East Side apartment building as Bertram and they have crossed paths many times. With each encounter Bertram has been monumentally rude so befriending her is no easy task." insensitivity and stifled humiliation." Téa Leoni (Gwen) Greg Kinnear (Frank Herlihy) Billy Campbell (Richard) Kristen Wiig (Surgeon) Dana Ivey (Mrs. Pickthall) and Aasif Mandvi (Dr. Jahangir Prashar)." Ms. Leoni’s Gwen is a gal who keeps a tight rein on her feelings. Crisp and self-reliant she is all the more attractive for her apparent lack of interest in beauty fashion and wedding bells. If the semiromantic connection she develops with Bertram (he’s smitten; she is interested but wary) isn’t totally convincing theirs is a classic screwball relationship of sassy openhearted combat. As Frank nags Bertram and Bertram woos Gwen in his ridiculous way the pace of mush-free repartee rarely flags." now that he has some lines on his face is no longer a Ken doll exuding boyish naïveté. His genial martini-drinking charmer with a wandering eye and a raised brow is about as close as anyone has come in a recent movie to Cary Grant who starred in the original “Topper” in 1937." “Ghost Town” tiptoes to the edge of that sticky mess but it doesn’t get caught there. Its snappy dialogue and sharp comic timing and the offbeat chemistry of Ricky Gervais (in his first feature-film starring role) Greg Kinnear and Téa Leoni keep it afloat." Fred Murphy; edited by Sam Seig; music by Geoff Zanelli; production designer Howard Cummings; produced by Gavin Polone; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." 
6801
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19seat.html
a puppy-eyed policeman whose wife Ella (Charlize Theron) works in a downtown department store and is five months pregnant. When the store closes early after its windows are smashed Ella struggling to get home is caught up in the crowd and randomly struck in the stomach with a police baton. If Ms. Theron conveys almost unbearable pain in this scene what happens to her is all we really know about her. She is a rhetorical plot device." Calif.; San Francisco; Seattle; and Washington." a television news reporter who joins the demonstrators after observing the police brutality; Dr. Maric (Rade Serbedzija) a representative of Doctors Without Borders who angrily lectures the few W.T.O. ministers who show up about the organization’s preference for profits over people; and Sam (Jennifer Carpenter) a lawyer who argues for the demonstrators’ release from jail." a hard-shelled fellow demonstrator who hook up after they collaborate on a daredevil mission to unfurl an anti-W.T.O. banner from a crane. Django (André Benjamin) the gentlest of the three is a grinning guitar-strumming ninny who marches on the street dressed as a turtle." it repeatedly plunges you into the kicking and screaming melee of peaceful protest gone awry. Cries rend the air and bodies crumple as police batons are swung and tear-gas canisters explode. This is what happens the movie warns when the powers that be are unprepared for the magnitude of organized opposition and impulsively lash back. Resistance gives way to fury and fury incites chaos." a fictional surrogate for Paul Schell Seattle’s mayor at the time. A former Vietnam War protester who insists that the police act with restraint he is pressured by the governor and the White House to take decisive action after store windows are smashed and intersections are blocked. As he summons the National Guard declares a curfew and orders mass arrests the internal drama behind his choices is only perfunctorily acknowledged and a dramatic opportunity is lost." Barry Ackroyd; edited by Fernando Villena; production designer Chris August; produced by Kirk Shaw Maxime Rémillard Mary Aloe and Mr. Townsend; released by Redwood Palms Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." Mexico in 2003 a heavily patrolled two-mile exclusion zone was established; so much for organized protest." Woody Harrelson (Dale) Martin Henderson (Jay) Ray Liotta (Mayor Jim Tobin) Connie Nielsen (Jean Asbury) Michelle Rodriguez (Lou) Channing Tatum (Johnson) Rade Serbedzija (Dr. Maric) Jennifer Carpenter (Sam) and Charlize Theron (Ella)." his rage and frustration drive him to pursue Jay (Martin Henderson) one of the movie’s three representative demonstrators into a church where he beats him to a pulp. In the preposterously mawkish scene that sinks the film he eventually calms down locates Jay and apologizes and they exchange words of understanding and forgiveness." an Irish actor “Battle in Seattle” makes no bones about where its sympathies lie. Except for the anarchistic fringe it is wholeheartedly on the side of the demonstrators a loose coalition of grass-roots activists from the environmental and labor movements joined by students and other groups who opposed globalization." “Medium Cool.” Filmed on the streets in Chicago during the 1968 Democratic National Convention “Medium Cool” mixed scenes of the violent confrontations between demonstrators and the police with the fictional story of a television cameraman. “Battle in Seattle” shoehorns in television footage of the actual protests." ” you can hear the machinery grind and squeak as the scales are balanced." 000 demonstrators far more than were expected descended on Seattle in late November 1999 determined to shut down the first W.T.O. ministerial conference to be held on American soil. During five days of civil strife they prevented many of the trade ministers from attending the conference." 
6802
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19quil.html
featuring surprisingly articulate accounts from residents lacking in formal education mixed with scenes capturing their daily work of making rice flours and cooking oils. But the focus lies most heavily on their frequent religious ceremonies some incorporating elements of witchcraft and lively festivals that involve cachaça tobacco dancing and above all music. Much perhaps too much screen time is dedicated to individuals singing sometimes while playing locally made instruments and large groups participating in elaborate music rituals." who narrates makes the film’s history-telling go down smoothly.  It also helps rarely reported bits of  data — the majority of Brazilians for example won’t acknowledge that African blood flows through more than half the population’s veins — come across even more blaringly." “quilombo” refers to the villages throughout Brazil originally founded by insurgent and fugitive slaves under desperate conditions. A few hundred years later their inhabitants still face harsh conditions: poverty racism battles for land ownership and the stripping of identity because of modernization." produced directed and edited by Leonard Abrams; director of photography Mr. Abrams; narrated by Chuck D. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 13 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6803
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19pray.html
and the movie generates much of its feeling from their efforts to muffle the rattling. When Yilan heads off to work (and to bittersweet romantic rendezvous) her father pores over the newspaper or sits on a bench in the nearby park where he strikes up a poignant friendship with a matronly Iranian immigrant (touchingly played by Vida Ghahremani)." “A Thousand Years” stars Henry O as Mr. Shi an elderly Beijing gentleman who pays a visit to his daughter in America. Yilan (Faye Yu) leads a prosperous assimilated life in a generic suburb and greets her father with a mix of affection and trepidation." English and Farsi with English subtitles) by Yiyun Li based on the short story by Ms. Li; director of photography Patrick Lindenmaier; edited by Deirdre Slevin Taizo Son and Jooick Lee; music by Lesley Barber; production designer Vincent De Felice; produced by Yukie Kito Rich Cowan and Mr. Wang; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated." pleasantly unrushed piece of moviemaking. There’s a tonic simplicity to how it gets the job done and if the film comes off as fairly conventional stuff it nevertheless succeeds on its own modest middlebrow terms." in its circumspect way to a big emotional resolution. A more ambitious film might have forgone this predictable denouement; a less accomplished one would have fumbled its touching sincerity." Henry O (Mr. Shi) Vida Ghahremani (Madame) and Pasha Lychnikoff (Boris)." 
6804
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19houn.html
“Hounddog” might have fizzled quietly on the fringes of movieland leaving few traces beyond  Dakota Fanning’s astonishing performance." playing Daddy’s fragile girlfriend (and perhaps sister) juggles a black eye and a preposterous monologue with aplomb Mr. Morse has little to do except hang around looking gormless. Ms. Laurie for her part simply recycles the God-fearing liquor-loving harridan she perfected in “Carrie ” ranting against “devil music” and Lewellen’s twitching hips." buttocks bruises and bad words." Cody Hanford (Buddy) Piper Laurie (Grammie) David Morse (Daddy) Afemo Omilami (Charles) and Robin Wright Penn (Stranger Lady)." Ed Lachman and Jim Denault; edited by Sabine Hoffman and Andrew Marcus; music by Gisburg ; production designer Tim Grimes; produced by Ms. Kampmeier Scott Franklin Raye Dowell Terry Leonard Roberta Hanley Jen Gatien and Lawrence Robins; released by Empire Film Group. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." genielike whenever a white character requires spiritual guidance or a jolt of folksy wisdom. “You got to fill all those empty hollow places ” he advises Lewellen patiently milking the venom from rattlers and humans alike. The empty places in the script (by Deborah Kampmeier who also directs) however remain stubbornly vacant: cicadas chirp chickens squawk and rutting men grunt but nothing can salvage a narrative that’s all symbol and no substance every rain shower and batch of homemade jelly loaded with mythic significance." this overripe tale of innocence lost has become one of notoriety found. Set in rural Alabama in the 1950s the movie clings protectively to Lewellen (Ms. Fanning) a gangly preteenager  whose only family is an abusive Daddy (David Morse) and a Bible-spouting Grammie (Piper Laurie). To ease her loneliness Lewellen dreams of singing with Elvis. She warbles “Hound Dog” to all and sundry  — quite well as it happens — and wriggles her skinny body in imitation of her idol." slither in the river and nestle in Lewellen’s crotch the audience is left to speculate on whether her attacker will be good-for-nothing Daddy his brain now stir-fried by God’s lightning bolt or the aw-shucks milkman leering beneath a devilish dose of acne. Yet compared with say the kicky visceral pulp of Craig Brewer’s “Black Snake Moan” — an aria of Southern excess — “Hounddog” is never more than a sluggish dawdle from shack to swimmin’ hole and back again." the movie believes in the curative role of the blues the symbolic role of reptiles and the strictly supportive role of African-Americans. If anyone were going to be scandalized it shouldn’t have been the Catholic League and child protection advocates.   It should have been the Humane Society and the N.A.A.C.P." of course loves it but despite the script’s intimations of incest and Lewellen’s guilelessly provocative squirming “Hounddog” never comes close to being salacious. The much-maligned deflowering when it finally occurs is probably the film’s most accomplished scene composed of thoughtful cutaways and relying for resonance on a single lingering shot of the girl’s traumatized expression." 
6805
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19frau.html
Bosnian Croatian and Serbian with English subtitles) by Ms. Staka Barbara Albert and Marie Kreutzer; director of photography Igor Martinovic; edited by Gion-Reto Killias; music by Peter von Siebenthal Till Wyler and Daniel Jakob; production designer Sue Erdt; produced by Susann Rüdlinger Samir Mirjam Quinte and Davor Pusic; released by Film Movement. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. This film is not rated." the writer and director Andrea Staka leans instead on recurring images that pinpoint each character’s emotional state: Ruza tying the belt of her militaristic trench coat just so; Ana drugged and swaying to a nightclub’s techno beat; Mila listening unresponsively as her husband plans their return to Croatia. And though the theme of repression is handled a little too obviously (each woman stores her most precious belongings in a secret box ) Ms. Staka — who grew up in Switzerland but whose family is from Bosnia and Croatia — understands the fear and allure of borders. For her three refugees commonality is a country that no longer exists." elusive drama about the boundaries of friendship and nationality “Fräulein” presents immigrant lives with significantly more empathy than detail." Marija Skaricic (Ana) Ljubica Jovic (Mila) Andrea Zogg (Franz) Zdenko Jelcic (Ante) and Pablo Aguilar (Fredi)." though the movie’s narrative shorthand will be enough its teasing snapshots of three disparate (and desperate) women difficult to shake off. All three have come to Zurich from the former Yugoslavia a  place whose fluid borders have produced mixed identities and impermanent kinships. Ruza (the amazing Mirjana Karanovic) a 50-something Serbian manages her orderly canteen and elderly Croatian waitress Mila (Ljubica Jovic) with cold precision. But when a seemingly carefree young woman named Ana (Marija Skaricic) arrives from Bosnia her elders’ ironclad routines won’t be the only things to change." 
6806
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19amex.html
William M. Miller; edited by Morty Ashkinos and Ilya Magazanin; music by Kerry Muzzey; produced by Mr. Famiglietti and Mr. Bonifacio; released by the Shutter Speed Group. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes." who also wrote the script carries the film as Bruno a lonely Italian-American slouch living in a dreary basement apartment in Queens. When his landlord throws some construction work his way to help him pay the back rent Bruno turns to the Mexican laborers who wait on a street corner each day." a man he had no problem calling a “fence-jumper” hours before. Despite Ignacio’s limited grasp of English he and his wife Gabriela (Jennifer Peña) welcome Bruno into their lives. Bruno looks forward to going to work and even faces some of his prejudices. Previously a believer that English should be the only accepted language in the country he begins studying Spanish alone at night." stemming mostly from Diego (Manny Perez) a bully with a serious chip on his shoulder. The characters in this fairy-tale-in-the-making probably can’t live happily ever after no matter how badly we want them to." Raúl Castillo (Ignacio) Jennifer Peña (Gabriela) Manny Perez (Diego) Hugo Aleman (Cesar) and Michael Aronov (Alex)." 
6807
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19terr.html
preferring to complicate matters with a bit of left-field spousal deception. I won’t disclose the nature of the lie — you may  as well be surprised by something since you won’t be surprised by how bad this movie is — but it may reassure what fans remain of Mr. LaBute’s rote misanthropy. Your neighbor may be a raging racist nut case but the person who’s really out to get you is the one you’re married to." not for the first time to assume the posture of social provocateur — is that Abel is not your average white bigot but rather a righteously angry or at least seriously crazy black one played by (who else?) Samuel L. Jackson. Abel finds various pretexts for abusing and humiliating Chris but it’s clear from the start that this white man’s marriage to a black woman is the main source of his   animus." middle-class African-American man toward a younger more privileged racially mixed couple is a potentially interesting subject fraught with bitter history and complicated sexual politics. But Bernie Mac did more with the topic in a few throwaway moments of the lamebrain comedy “Guess Who” than Mr. Jackson manages in all of “Lakeview Terrace.” Abel’s resentment of Chris and Lisa exists in a political and cultural vacuum and turns out in any case to be explained by an episode from Abel’s past that will make your jaw drop (or ache from laughter) when it is revealed." as in “The Wicker Man ” dropped far below it). Considered purely as a formal exercise “Lakeview Terrace” is a passable piece of hackwork with some adequately suspenseful passages and a few mild shocks near the end. But the psychological dimensions of the story are so risible and its supposed insights into race and class so wrongheaded and ugly that irritation trumps enjoyment." based on a story by Mr. Loughery; director of photography Rogier Stoffers; edited by Joel Plotch; music by Mychael Danna and Jeff Danna; production designer Bruton Jones; produced by James Lassiter and Will Smith; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." ” directed by Neil LaBute from a script by David Loughery and Howard Korder belongs to a reasonably familiar subgenre: the suburban psycho-neighbor noir. At the beginning little suspecting what horrors lie ahead an attractive young married couple Lisa and Chris Mattson (Kerry Washington and Patrick Wilson) move into a lovely new house on a quiet cul-de-sac amid the hills and canyons of Los Angeles County. There is no lake to be seen but the property does afford a nice view of metaphorical wildfires   in the distance." Patrick Wilson (Chris Mattson) Kerry Washington (Lisa Mattson) and Jay Hernandez (Javier Villareal)." single dad and Los Angeles cop whose behavior rapidly escalates from odd to creepy to menacing to murderous. Abel disapproves of the rap music Chris listens to and the cigarettes he smokes and holds opinions  that make his Prius-driving liberal-minded new neighbors a little uncomfortable. He’s a law-and-order conservative who doesn’t believe in global warming and his views on interracial romance would not be out of place in Jim Crow-era Mississippi." bellowing performance is so close to self-parody that I had to check the end credits to make sure I hadn’t been watching Dave Chappelle doing an extended version of his Comedy Central impersonation. But no it was indeed Mr. Jackson who is nothing if not enterprising. Whether he’s chasing snakes on a plane chaining a wayward young lady to a radiator or persecuting newlyweds in the suburbs Mr. Jackson can always find a new application for the snarling sarcastic fury that has come to define his range as an actor." violence and strong language." 
6808
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19igor.html
“Igor” leaves us unmoved by its vertically challenged hero. His belief that the ultimate evil is an excerpt from “Annie ” on the other hand deserves our unqualified sympathy." Aldous Huxley and horror-movie history the film’s scientists have engineered a servile class of hunchbacks all named Igor. When one of these sorry creatures (voiced by John Cusack) succeeds in assembling a female monster — part Betty Boop part Elephant Man — first place at the Evil Science Fair seems assured. If only she weren’t so gosh-darned nice." his progress is impeded by a Liberace-styled nemesis (Eddie Izzard camping it up) a suicidal bunny (Steve Buscemi) and a dimwitted jar-dwelling brain (Sean Hayes). Kiddies however will be undiverted by the humdrum animation and a palette that mirrors the film’s moral and meteorological gloom. Neither will they respond to a script (by Chris McKenna) that seems more focused on tickling movie-savvy adults: how many kindergartners recognize James Lipton?" John Cleese (Dr. Glickenstein) Jennifer Coolidge (Jaclyn) John Cusack (Igor) Arsenio Hall (Carl Cristall) Sean Hayes (Brain) Eddie Izzard (Dr. Schadenfreude) Jay Leno (King Malbert) James Lipton (himself) Molly Shannon (Eva) and Christian Slater (Dr. Schadenfreude’s Igor)." inky clouds obscure the sun and loony scientists are rewarded for diabolical inventions. There’s scant reward though for sitting through “Igor ” an animated twist on the Frankenstein story that never sparks to life." Olivier Besson; produced by John D. Eraklis and Max Howard; released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes." 
6809
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19elit.html
with English subtitles) by Mr. Padilha Bráulio Mantovani and Rodrigo Pimentel; director of photography Lula Carvalho; edited by Daniel Rezende; music by Pedro Bromfman; production designer Tulé Peake; produced by Mr. Padilha Mr. Mantovani and Marcos Prado; released by IFC Films and the Weinstein Company. At the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes. This film is not rated." Nascimento (Wagner Moura) a captain in the special black-shirted Rio police unit is so close to the edge that he can’t stop his hands from shaking fists from flying or mouth from flapping. Anxious to leave the elite squad this dully repetitive if uninformative guide goes about trying to find a successor a chore that soon involves a couple of rookies (André Ramiro and Caio Junqueira) both of whom have to be broken down before they can join up. Meanwhile the pope is swinging into town which means the captain must help sweep the slum. Bloody torture and bloodier death from cops and thugs ensue amid smeary jittery camerawork and choppy edits that transform the visually disjointed grim and dim spaces into confetti. Somewhere Roger Corman is weeping." André Ramiro (André Matias) Caio Junqueira (Neto) Milhem Cortaz (Capitão Fábio) Fernanda Machado (Maria) and Maria Ribeiro (Rosane)." “Elite Squad ” a relentlessly ugly unpleasant often incoherent assault on the senses from Brazil  — and the baffling winner of this year’s top prize at the Berlin Film Festival —  wants to have its grinding violence and sanctimony too. The director is the promising José Padilha here belly-flopping into fiction after soaring high in “Bus 174 ” the powerful 2002 documentary he made with Felipe Lacerda about a desperate hijacking by a Rio slum dweller. Clearly taken with the lower depths Mr. Padilha has returned to Rio’s homegrown war zones this time armed with a screenplay he wrote with Rodrigo Pimentel and  Bráulio Mantovani the author of “City of God ” the art-house-meets-grindhouse hit that clearly inspired this one." 
6810
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19duch.html
Jeffrey Hatcher and Anders Thomas Jensen based on the biography “Georgiana Duchess of Devonshire” by Amanda Foreman; director of photography Gyula Pados; edited by Masahiro Hirakubo; music by Rachel Portman; production designer Michael Carlin; produced by Gabrielle Tana and Michael Kuhn; released by Paramount Vantage. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." Duchess of Devonshire) Ralph Fiennes (the Duke of Devonshire) Charlotte Rampling (Lady Spencer) Dominic Cooper (Earl Grey) Hayley Atwell (Lady Elizabeth Foster) and Simon McBurney (Charles James Fox)." Ms. Knightley looks pretty as a Gainsborough picture in and out of her silks and satins but she’s not a remotely composed one.  Though now 23 she still tends to  throw herself around the room like one of those jangling adolescent girls who arms and legs pinwheeling heads bobbing like Halloween apples have yet to adjust to their newly sprouted bodies. (Modigliani would have loved the willowy bend of her neck if he could have persuaded her to stop fidgeting.) She’s not much of an actress — she pops her eyes instead and thrusts out her chest — but she doesn’t need to be Helen Mirren if she can cultivate a real screen presence. Stillness would become her as would a good director." Georgiana went from scampering merrily across the emerald expanse of the family estate under the pitiless gaze of her mother (Charlotte Rampling) to trembling under the unloving touch of the Duke of Devonshire (Mr. Fiennes very fine). A cold if brilliant catch the duke took his teenage bride expecting she would instantly bear him a male heir. Fate intervened and the happily ever after never materialized though the children did pop. She wasn’t scrubbing chamber pots for her keep but she did have to endure her husband’s dalliances. There were tears and storms petty and political affairs (along with a little unconvincing Sapphic panting) and in time the Amanda Foreman book on which the film is based." and the usual aristocratic decadence and vice." the director Saul Dibb laps it all up and dribbles it back without an ounce of reserve or postempire skepticism his camera trailing after Georgiana like a dog a vantage point that badly serves  his inexpert star." “The Duchess” wants you to pity Georgiana while also indulging in every luscious detail of her captivity. She may have a pimp for a mother and a bore for a husband but just look at those verdant landscapes dotted with grazing sheep (no grubbing peasants) the fabulously ornamented gowns leaning towers of wigs palatial digs and troops of silent servants. (It’s period-lifestyle pornography.)" ” an overstuffed intellectually underbaked portrait of a poor little rich girl but Ralph Fiennes does take scissors to Keira Knightley’s unmentionables for some shivery snip-snip. Based on a true story as they say in the movies the tale traces the cosseted tightly corseted late-18th-century life of Georgiana Spencer the Duchess of Devonshire one of those gilded-cage aristocrats who appear to have been primed pumped and exclusively prized for the fecundity of their wombs. If the name of another suffering Spencer (guess!) popped into your head you have made the filmmakers very happy." 
6811
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/19/movies/19appa.html
everyone involved in “Appaloosa” favors professionalism over bluster. This is especially true of Mr. Mortensen whose features are half-hidden behind facial hair that is by far the showiest thing about him. Everett says very little and spends a lot of time just watching the other more voluble characters so Mr. Mortensen’s performance resides almost entirely in his eyes which register tiny unmistakable nuances of surprise suspicion and amusement." using the familiar features of the genre to map new territory on the borderland between history and legend. Like the expensive prestigious A-westerns of the postwar era these movies explicitly take up big questions about national identity historical memory and the nature of justice." and as I’ve suggested it doesn’t really try to be. Some potentially interesting political themes — about what it means for a polity to privatize its apparatus of justice and security about the relationship between righteousness and force — are left for other more earnest pictures to explore. This one shows a square jaw and a steely gaze but also a smile and a wink." Mr. Harris’s character makes his living — but “Appaloosa” works best as a cunning understated sex comedy. Superimposed on the usual diagram of good guys and bad guys with a scattering of fools cowards and mercenaries in the middle is an improbable romantic triangle. Virgil and his sidekick Everett Hitch (Viggo Mortensen) are like a long-married couple with Everett as the patient helpmeet backing up his partner’s gunfighting bravado with quiet competence and helping him with difficult Latinate words." his face as hard and unyielding as quarried stone but there is often a saving glint of mischief in his eye. And in “Appaloosa ” his second feature as director (after “Pollock”) he leavens the atmosphere of costumed rigidity and somber stoicism with sly relaxed humor." imposing the rule of the gun on chaotic frontier towns like Appaloosa in the New Mexico territory. There a gaggle of bumbling town elders (including the near-ubiquitous and always welcome Timothy Spall) need help dealing with a murderous landowner named Bragg. Played by Jeremy Irons with some vocal inflections borrowed from Daniel Day-Lewis in “There Will Be Blood ” Bragg is a smooth-talking killer attended by a large retinue of unshaven thugs." Ed Harris (Virgil Cole) Renée Zellweger (Allison French) Jeremy Irons (Randall Bragg) Timothy Spall (Phil Olson) and Lance Henriksen (Ring Shelton)." brief nudity and profanity." meanwhile (like last year’s remake of “3:10 to Yuma”) try to recapture the lean tense storytelling style of the old B-westerns. Those pictures staples of the American moviegoer’s diet in the middle decades of the last century approached the grand themes more modestly and obliquely embedding them in deceptively simple yarns about men horses and guns." based on the novel by Robert B. Parker; director of photography Dean Semler; edited by Kathryn Himoff; music by Jeff Beal; production designer Waldemar Kalinowski; produced by Mr. Harris Mr. Knott and Ginger Sledge; released by Warner Brothers Pictures and New Line Cinema. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." good-humored view of its characters drains it of some dramatic intensity but Mr. Harris seems more interested in piquant offhand moments than in big straining confrontations. One important gunfight goes by so quickly and anticlimactically that even Everett remarks on how fast it was over. “That’s because the folks knew how to shoot ” Virgil says offering an implicit defense of Mr. Harris’s crafty and unassuming approach to filmmaking." sober pacing Ed Harris’s “Appaloosa ” based on a novel by Robert B. Parker seems at first to aspire to the A-list. Thankfully though its gestures toward grandiosity are superficial and few." and the compromises Allie makes in order to gain a bit of freedom and security are not all that different from theirs." including some darting glances (and then a bit more) between Everett and Allie who turns out not to be the paragon of wifely constancy Virgil takes her for. The most subversive aspect of “Appaloosa” may be the way it quietly jettisons the shopworn sexual categories the Production Code imposed on the women of the old westerns." but the real trouble starts when they meet Allie French (Reneé Zellweger) a not terribly grief-stricken widow who — how else to put it? — has Virgil at hello. Before long Virgil who has never shown much interest in settling down is building a house at the end of Appaloosa’s main street and asking Everett’s advice about window treatments." 
6812
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/18/movies/18pier.html
the chief film critic of Variety “Pierre Rissient” is unavoidably an insidery affair. But even those who have never talked mise-en-scène with Gilles Jacob (former director of the Cannes Film Festival  and major talking head here)    will be intrigued by this affectionate look at a legendary cinephile and prime mover of the movies." with English subtitles; directors of photography Gary Graver and Mr. McCarthy; edited by James Taylor; released by Deep Focus. At the Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes. This film is not rated." consultant and editor Mr. Rissient is convincingly portrayed as a man who knows everything about every movie ever made; knows everybody everywhere who’s doing anything of interest in the cinema; and whose taste is impeccable influential and passionately defended." but nobody knows what he does. Such is the opening premise of “Pierre Rissient: Man of Cinema ” a documentary that sets out to establish its subject as one of the seminal tastemakers of contemporary  movies." ” in this case means the filmmakers critics festival programmers and others who make up the international cine intelligentsia members of that rarefied tribe who invariably bump into Mr. Rissient at the Cannes Film Festival where he presides as a powerful behind-the-scenes presence. Artists as diverse as Jane Campion King Hu Joseph Losey Hou Hsiao-hsien  and even Clint Eastwood owe their critical esteem in part to Mr. Rissient’s advocacy." 
6813
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/13/movies/13perr.html
but she is not a greedy snob like the designated villains. One baddie is Charlotte’s son William (Cole Hauser) who schemes to wrest the business from his mother’s control. But the worst monster is Andrea (Sanaa Lathan) the older of Alice’s two daughters." Andrea lords her superior education (Harvard) and income over her sister Pam (Taraji P. Henson) who works in Alice’s diner. She also humiliates her husband Chris (Rockmond Dunbar) a construction worker by denying his existence in social situations and by cheating on him with William." Toyomichi Kurita; edited by Maysie Hoy; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer Ina Mayhew; produced by Mr. Perry and Reuben Cannon; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes." her good counterpart Abby (Robin Givens) is equally well educated and attractive but scrupulously honest and ethically unimpeachable. Mr. Perry plays Pam’s likable husband Ben who works side by side with Chris." ” “Dynasty” and their offspring. As the movie proceeds the flow quickens into a surging flood tide of recriminations and reversals in which blows are exchanged claws bared and tears shed." Charlotte is both a ruthless business executive and a good ol’ gal. Midway through the movie she takes off on a cross-country road trip with her strait-laced best friend Alice (Alfre Woodard) the movie’s moral grounding wire and occasional narrator who runs a diner." Alfre Woodard (Alice) Tyler Perry (Ben) Cole Hauser (William) Sanaa Lathan (Andrea) Rockmond Dunbar (Chris) Taraji P. Henson (Pam) Kadee Strickland (Jillian) Sebastian Siegel (Nick) and Robin Givens (Abby)." a wealthy Southern matriarch who runs a construction empire near Atlanta." Charlotte dances with potbellied cowboys in a country-and-western bar and throws around cash at a club featuring male strippers. Prodded by Alice Charlotte also receives a baptismal dunk in a muddy river when the two women happen upon a roadside soul-saving ceremony." written and directed by Mr. Perry a one-man industry serving a niche audience that is primarily African-American “The Family That Preys” doesn’t worry about how it gets from A to Z. There is no problem that a miraculous (and preposterous) plot development can’t resolve in two minutes." ” good things are likely to happen. “Pray” means not  simply being religious but also having a grounded sense of values and a good heart that doesn’t judge people by their tax bracket." 
6814
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12flow.html
World Bank) “Flow” is designed to awaken the most somnolent consumer. At the very least it should make you think twice before you take that (unfiltered) shower." we’re given a distressing glimpse of regions embroiled in bitter battles against privatization. In South Africa villagers drink from stagnant ponds unable to pay for the water that once was free and protesters in Bolivia — where waste from a slaughterhouse is dumped into Lake Titicaca — brave gunfire to demand unrestricted access to potable water." “Flow” dives into our planet’s most essential resource — and third-largest industry — to find pollution scarcity human suffering and corporate profit. And that’s just in the United States." Ms. Salina cleverly frames this section with the protracted conflict between the residents of Mecosta County Mich. and the gluttonous demands of a Nestlé bottling plant." an informed and heartfelt examination of the tug of war between public health and private interests. From the dubious quality of our tap water (possibly laced with rocket fuel) to the terrifyingly unpoliced contents of bottled brands (one company pumped from the vicinity of a Superfund site) the movie ruthlessly dismantles our assumptions about water safety and government oversight." Pablo de Selva and Ms. Salina; edited by Caitlin Dixon Madeleine Gavin and Andrew Mondshein; music by Christophe Julien; produced by Steven Starr; released by Oscilloscope Laboratories. In Manhattan at the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6815
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12truc.html
all across North America the bright-eyed actor-directors of the Missoula Children’s Theater disembark from their little red trucks in towns both big (Los Angeles) and small (Somerton Ariz.) to put on shows." ” a documentary by the filmmaker Rob Whitehair and if it sounds like the cutest thing in the history of cuteness that’s because it is. It would take a superhuman capacity for cynicism to resist the radiant optimism of the Missoula Children’s Theater players and the unabashed pep of this joyful portrait. Sure this sweet little movie isn’t going to change the world but when those little red trucks roll up and all those little eyes light up that’s exactly what happens." goofy peewees (as the littlest ones are called) in say Rankin Inlet Nunavut Canada." ” “The Little Mermaid.” By Friday they hope all the kids know their lines songs and cues and by Saturday it’s on with the costumes on  with the dress rehearsal and on to the big night: the performance of an hourlong musical that has come together — more or less — in just one week." directed and edited by Rob Whitehair; directors of photography Mr. Whitehair and Pam Voth; music by Mr. Whitehair; produced by Ms. Voth; released by Tree and Sky Media Arts Ltd. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." 
6816
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12midw.html
but they do seem to be kindred spirits thoughtful and courteous and also aware of the ambiguities of their shared project. “Moving Midway” may not advance any grand new thesis about the South and its history but it turns an old house into a rich and strange repository of local knowledge." Jay Spain; edited by Ramsey Fendall and Greg Loser; music by Ahrin Mishan songs by Algia Mae Hinton; produced by Mr. Cheshire Vincent Farrell and Mr. Spain; released by First Run Features. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." the current generation of Hintons has a nostalgic sentimental relationship to the past and a wary ambivalent attitude toward modernity. At the heart of “Moving Midway” is the desire to preserve that warm respectful sense of tradition and continuity while at the same time looking clearly at the less noble realities of history and making some attempt to rectify them." partly a historical essay and partly the record of an improbable feat of engineering Godfrey Cheshire’s documentary “Moving Midway: A Southern Plantation in Transit” tells a fascinating and complicated story of regional identity. Mr. Cheshire a longtime film critic (and as such an acquaintance of mine) connects his longstanding interest in American popular culture with the lore attached to his ancestral home a North Carolina plantation called Midway." anyway. If the transportation of Midway provides one dramatic crux in Mr. Cheshire’s film the other arrives with the discovery of an African-American branch of the Hinton family. The two narratives converge at the end when in the restored house far from the rush of traffic and commerce the descendants of masters and slaves come together for a party." touching scene but to his credit Mr. Cheshire does not oversell it as a moment of reconciliation. Having begun with William Faulkner’s famous observation that “the past isn’t dead; it isn’t even past ” he does not rush to forgive his ancestors their transgressions. Nor does he undertake his investigation alone. On his journeys back home Mr. Cheshire is frequently accompanied by Robert Hinton a professor of Africana studies at New York University the film’s chief historian and associate producer as well as a descendant of slaves owned by the director’s family." which provides a useful context for Mr. Cheshire’s inquiries into the annals of Midway. He shares some fond reminiscences of the place and an intriguing portrait of his great-great-aunt Mary (or Mimi) a dominant figure in the 20th-century history of Midway and a keen collector of Hinton genealogical information." built in 1848 near Raleigh belongs to the Hintons ancestors of the Silvers the family of Mr. Cheshire’s mother Elizabeth who appears in his film to offer tart opinions of her ancestors Yankees and a good deal more. Elizabeth and other members of the family are concerned about the development that is rapidly changing the Southern landscape and encroaching on the gracious old mansion that is so central to who they are. As the strip malls and highways draw nearer Mr. Cheshire’s cousin Charlie decides to move the house a project that occupies the middle portion of the movie and turns it momentarily from an ambling first-person rumination into something like Werner Herzog’s “Fitzcarraldo.”" 
6817
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12towe.html
Jasira moves to Houston from Syracuse where she has been living with her angry embittered mother Gail (Maria Bello). The catalyst for the move is inappropriate behavior toward the girl by Gail’s boyfriend Barry (Chris Messina). On arriving in Texas Jasira experiences immediate culture shock. Her father observing her dressed like an ordinary American teenager finds her outfit outrageously provocative and strikes her hard in the face." Newton Thomas Sigel; edited by Andy Keir; music by Thomas Newman; production designer James Chinlund; produced by Ted Hope and Mr. Ball; released by Warner Independent Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 56 minutes." almost a decade before the presidency of George W. Bush it is also a period piece. Evangelical Christianity has yet to be mobilized as a national political force and Islamic jihadism is only a murmur beyond the horizon. The cracks in the political landscape may have formed but they have not opened into the chasms they are today." Thena (Lynn Collins) and Travis’s nasty wife Evelyn (Carrie Preston) are both all-American cheerleader types. The two men conspicuously fly American flags on their small manicured lawns. Rifat  is a rah-rah American warmonger who hates Saddam Hussein with a passion." the teasing trash-talking cheerleader played by Mena Suvari in “American Beauty.” Like Angela Jasira is not the person either her father or Travis sees through sexual eyes. Ms. Bishil who is 20 creates a convincing portrait of a confused 13-year-old girl being manipulated from all sides." ” a provocative satire of a culture that is paradoxically hypersexual and puritanical it makes everyone bonkers. The men tend to be glowering beasts unable to keep their hands to themselves and the female characters are either angry judgmental watchdogs or witchy Lolitas not fully aware of their Circean powers." Toni Collette (Melina Hines) Maria Bello (Gail Monahan) Peter Macdissi (Rifat Maroun) Summer Bishil (Jasira Maroun) Barry (Chris Messina) Thomas Bradley (Eugene Jones) Thena Panos (Lynn Collins) and Evelyn Vuoso (Carrie Preston)." but it is rarely funny. It pointedly presents Rifat and Travis as an unlikely two of a kind. If one is an overprotective father and the other a predator both see Jasira as an inflammatory force of nature and tend to blame her for it." its offspring is a colicky baby who does a lot of screaming and yelling and banging of fists. Instead of the lush well-tended landscape of “American Beauty ” the sterile tract housing of “Towelhead” is harshly ugly. The screenplay is talkier and the acting more strident." the insertion of tampons and the putting on of condoms it goes right to the brink before the camera cuts away. It does however show menstrual blood masturbation and discarded condoms. More to the point its characters no matter what their age obsess about such things to the exclusion of everything else." the movie’s underlying attitude is that all men are dogs especially when faced with virginal teenage flesh. Although the women are more sketchily drawn with the exception of Toni Collette’s portrayal of a concerned neighbor in the housing development they are viewed as avaricious bimbos." ” suburbia is portrayed as a hellish hothouse of repression and lust where everyone minds everyone else’s business. In this overheated atmosphere the tension suggests the opposing worlds of “Wife Swap” and “Trading Spouses”  forced  together in a no-win conflict. The movie is a barely disguised hate letter to southern Texas." faithfully adapted from Alicia Erian’s novel is the first film  directed by Alan  Ball the creator of “Six Feet Under” (and of the new vampire series “True Blood”) and screenwriter of “American Beauty.” Set during the first gulf war in a spanking-new upscale housing development on the outskirts of Houston “Towelhead” is a crude but scathing portrait of suburban life." “Towelhead” recalls the superior “Citizen Ruth ” in which a young woman’s pregnancy rallies vociferous   forces on both sides of the abortion battle." the married Army Reservist next door for whose bratty young son she baby-sits Jasira is irresistible jailbait.  A classmate (Eugene Jones) is equally besotted; Rifat pronounces him off limits because he is black; Jasira rebels." a juicy 13-year-old Lebanese-American girl with a healthy sexual curiosity whose classmates taunt her with names like “towelhead” and “camel jockey.” Her father Rifat (Peter Macdissi) a divorced Lebanese-born engineer who works for NASA but retains a straitlaced Middle Eastern code of values frets about Jasira’s budding sexuality and dream of becoming a centerfold." 
6818
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12loin.html
insightful screenplay he wrote with Anuvab Pal “Loins of Punjab” joins show-time antics to sociocultural commentary without reducing its characters colorful as they are to cartoons." with the contestants drawn for the most part from the area’s South Asian immigrant community the exception being a certain Josh Cohen (Michael Raimondi) lover of Indian culture (and of a girl from Mumbai) who dreams of starting a “joga” craze (jogging plus yoga)." affable cast includes a shy pretty girl  (Ishitta Sharma) with a domineering family; a Machiavellian socialite (Shabana Azmi); a struggling actress (Seema Rahmani) who like Margaret Cho is deemed “not Asian enough” by casting directors;  and a politicized would-be bhangra rapper who calls himself the Turbanotorious BDG (Ajay Naidu) and shows up with tons of attitude and a hot male lover (Kory Bassett)." Ajay Naidu (Turbanotorious BDG) Ayesha Dharker  (Opama Menon) Darshan Jariwala (Sanjeev Patel) Michael Raimondi (Josh Cohen) Kory Bassett (Otto) Seema Rahmani (Sania Rahman) and Ishitta Sharma (Preeti Patel)." ” a witty musical comedy with a sharp political edge is built on a satisfyingly simple premise. Over the course of a weekend  a motley crew of contestants gathers in a New Jersey hotel to compete in “Desi Idol ” an “American Idol”-style singing competition sponsored by a local pork-loin empire." Arvind Kannabiran; edited by Christopher Dillon; music by Michael Cohen; production designers Rohit Shinkre and Ayesha Punvani; released by Emerging Pictures. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6819
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12gree.html
Paul Sorvino (Catch Turner) David Fumero (Benicio Aceveda) Jay O. Sanders (Commodore Callaghan) Andrew Shaifer (Flip Dooley) and Lars Arentz-Hansen (Lars Ramkildestrom)." New Jersey and Philadelphia." at least at this point the type of actress you find on the Disney Channel: genetically unable even when crying to project anything other than “cute” and never quite able to shake the “Hey I’m on camera!” look." ” a watchable-enough summer-at-the-beach tale billed as Gabrielle Berberich’s first feature as writer and producer. (Parts of the story are drawn from her own summers in Lavallette a New Jersey shore town.)" until Mr. Sorvino a real actor and a good one shows up. He plays a down-on-his-luck fisherman who takes the girl under his wing and he makes Ms. Shaw and some of the other cast members look like amateurs. The director Greg Chwerchak (who also gets a writing credit) doesn’t help; he allows several secondary characters to become thudding clichés trampling the delicate story." Mike Mickens; edited by Kimberly Generous White; music by Jim Latham; production designer Chia-Yi Renee Chao; produced by  Ms. Berberich; released by Newstyle Releasing and Hudson Mermaid Productions. At the Village VII 66 Third Avenue at 13th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 56 minutes." supposedly for language though there is nothing here that would scandalize younger teenagers the audience who would most enjoy this film." 
6820
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12forg.html
and the agitated shade of a dead girl reappears as the daughter of David’s unlikely Palestinian lover “Forgiveness” juggles a perplexing number of themes philosophies and aesthetics. Caught in an endless loop of repressed memories and spiritual aphorisms the screenplay (by Paul Hond and Udi Aloni who also directs) disdains to say once what it can repeat several times. The message may be clear — suppress the past at your peril — but the execution is a mess. As for the line-dancing soldiers your guess is as good as mine." forward up and down the movie’s bewildering plot follows David (Itay Tiran) a young Israeli-American with unresolved identity issues. To spite his famous father (Michael Sarne) David enlists in the Israeli  Army where a tragic incident leaves him virtually catatonic. Committed to a mental hospital on the site of a Jewish massacre of a Palestinian village David bounces between a drug that promises to erase the past and another patient (Moni Moshonov) who urges him to discuss it with the skeletons the inmates are busily exhuming." Clara Khoury (Lila) Moni Moshonov (Muselmann) Makram Khoury (Dr. Isaac Shemesh) Tamara Mansour (Amal/Ghost/Girl) and Michael Sarne (Henry Adler)." ” a mystifying mishmash of ghost story and group therapy." Hebrew and Arabic with English subtitles) by Mr. Aloni and Paul Hond based on the book by Mr. Aloni; director of photography Amnon Zalait; edited by Galia Gill Moors; music by Tamir Muskat; production designers Kuly Sander and Tommaso Ortino; produced by David Silber Lemore Syvan and Mr. Aloni; released by International Film Circuit. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6821
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12wome.html
Anastas Michos; edited by Tia Nolan; music by Mark Isham; production designer Jane Musky; produced by Victoria Pearman Mick Jagger Bill Johnson and Ms. English; released by Picturehouse. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes." ” where plenty of men hang around and have speaking parts was able on the big screen but especially on television to create and maintain an autonomous space of female friendship. However big they might have been the dudes knew their place which was at the margin of the charmed circle of Carrie Samantha Miranda and Charlotte. Here the fathers and husbands cast a longer darker shadow. While it’s possible that this is Ms. English’s point it’s one that contradicts and ultimately makes incoherent her celebration of female self-sufficiency and solidarity." Annette Bening (Sylvie Fowler) Eva Mendes (Crystal Allen) Debra Messing (Edie Cohen) Jada Pinkett Smith (Alex Fisher) Carrie Fisher (Bailey Smith) Cloris Leachman (Maggie) Debi Mazar (Tanya) Bette Midler (Leah Miller) Tilly Scott Pedersen (Uta) and Candice Bergen (Catherine Frazier)." and also to humiliate the remake a witless straining mess written and directed by Diane English the creator of “Murphy Brown.” Watching it you wait in vain for a moment of snappy repartee of fresh emotion of grace or charm or pathos. You wait by the way for a very long time — two hours that pass like the whole 13-episode jump-the-shark season of a series on basic cable — and what you get is Meg Ryan munching on a stick of butter dipped in cocoa powder as she rants and raves to her au pair (Tilly Scott Pedersen) and her maid (Cloris Leachman) about the sorry state of her life." though muddled sexual politics are not the main problem. If “The Women” had managed to give its various impulses some kind of coherent shape or tone it might be worth arguing about. As it is the movie wanders and wallows stumbling toward screwball before veering in the direction of weepiness and grasping at satirical urbanity along the way." the heroic women of “The Women” will not concede without a fight. But rarely has class struggle or catfighting for that matter been so tediously waged. And rarely have so many fine actresses been enlisted in such a futile cause. They all deserved better and it hurts especially to watch Ms. Bening and Candice Bergen (who plays Mary’s mother) lend their wit and dignity to a project that has so little of its own." a gold-digging vixen who works at the perfume counter at Saks Fifth Avenue. The strain of top-down class resentment in the way her character is portrayed — mean selfish cheap and vulgar — is perhaps the most shocking thing about the movie and also perhaps the most honest. At bottom this is less a movie about defending a marriage or battling for a man than it is about the protection of social privilege. Out in the suburbs the loyal servants stand by their mistress (and seem to have no private lives or desires of their own) while in the city the lower orders scheme and gossip and connive to steal what can never be rightfully theirs." some 1930s movie?” asks a character in “The Women.” If only! Of course the line pays winking homage to a specific ’30s movie directed by George Cukor and based on a notorious play by Clare Boothe Luce that starred Norma Shearer and Joan Crawford and was also called “The Women.”" part of a circle of friends that includes Edie (Debra Messing) Alex (Jada Pinkett Smith) and supremely Annette Bening as Sylvie. One of the film’s clever conceits borrowed from the original is that it entirely banishes men. And yet far from liberating the women from male domination this trick serves only to emphasize their dependence on the caprices of patriarchal authority. The invisible men in “The Women” wield an almost mystical power." who otherwise has to oscillate between ditzy and mopey a chance to remind us that she is still the spitfire who won America’s heart when she faked an orgasm at Katz’s Deli. In “The Women ” she certainly works at faking something — pluck? distress? belief in the script? — but table-pounding ecstasy or even simple modest pleasure is beyond this movie’s range." a lesbian and a celebrated essayist is immune but she disappears for much of the movie (lucky her). Edie meanwhile is pregnant for the fifth time while the never-married Sylvie a magazine editor with crisp suits and a posture of easy confident command lives in constant fear of being fired by her male publisher. Mary in spite of the energy with which she devotes herself to work family cooking gardening and everything else is employed by her father and it turns out at the mercy of her philandering stockbroker husband." 
6822
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12secr.html
as might be expected in so murky a milieu winds up a little lost. Directed by Peter Galison and Robb Moss this nebulous yet evocative documentary is galvanized by the consolidation of executive power under the Bush administration and its growing use of the state-secrets privilege in the post-9/11 era." in principle of hiding certain types of critical information. In practice the film finds much to be troubled about starting with the momentous 1953 Supreme Court decision in United States v. Reynolds that set the legal precedent for the state-secrets privilege and was later revealed to have been founded on dubious grounds." Austin de Besche and Stephen McCarthy; edited by Chyld King; music by John Kusiak; released by Redacted  Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." meditative essay didactic poem and call to arms. If the movie follows no single thread of inquiry nor sustains any argument or research in depth it nevertheless explores some chilling corridors of the clandestine." ” a shadowy concept that never quite reveals itself the movie touches on the push-pull dynamic of the government  versus the press; the culture clash between those shaped by the cold-war paradigm of information hoarding and those alert to the networked sensibility of the Internet era; the private toll of covering up; and the great danger to the public of secrecy for its own sake." 
6823
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12righ.html
Mr. Pacino and Mr. De Niro need a strong hand some kind of visionary authority to put them in their best light and prevent them from leaning on the tics and tricks  —  Mr. Pacino tends to turn up the volume while Mr. De Niro glowers until he looks ready to pop  —  that now too often mar their performances. “Righteous Kill ” a clutter of recycled cop-movie and serial-killer film clichés (it’s hard to believe that the screenwriter Russell Gewirtz also wrote “Inside Man”) is far from their worst effort. And the two have some nice moments with each other and some of the other actors. Mr. Pacino seems to be genuinely moved during his final showdown with Mr. De Niro or maybe he’s just a sweet sentimental fool." if only Robert Aldrich were alive! The pulpmeister of the horror lollapalooza “What Ever  Happened to Baby Jane?” certainly knew how to build a grand showcase for his corrugated divas (Bette Davis and Joan Crawford) while the hapless Jon Avnet hasn’t a clue what to do with his (Al Pacino and Robert De Niro). In “Righteous Kill” these two godheads of 1970s cinema go macho-a-macho with each other — furrowing brows bellowing lines looking alternately grimly serious and somewhat bemused  —  in a B-movie (more like C-minus) duet that probably sounded like a grand idea when their handlers whispered it in their ears." alas doesn’t so much pass in “Righteous Kill” as crawl despite the usual overcutting which tries to pump energy into the inert proceedings. Mr. Avnet whose last movie was the clunker “88 Minutes” (one of Mr. Pacino’s worst) is not a natural director to put it kindly. His handiwork is most evident in the unsteady tone though to be fair it’s always hard to know who deserves most of the blame for this kind of star-struck suit-crammed (eight producers three executive producers one co-producer) mush. Suffice it to say that everything from the camera placement to the cheap use of the consistently good lamentably underemployed Carla Gugino is shoddy. (Note to Mr. Avnet: Yes Ms. Gugino has breasts but really her acting is more interesting.)" in Michael Mann’s 1995 thriller “Heat ” in which they spent most of the film in separate story lines joined only by the parallel editing and a late-act disappointingly anticlimactic meeting at a diner. They share far more face time in “Righteous Kill ” playing well-seasoned New York City Police Department detectives and long-term partners who take turns clucking at each other like hens while swaggering around town like gamecocks. True to strut pouf and wattles Mr. Pacino’s cop goes by Rooster while Mr. De Niro is just Turk which doesn’t appear to be short for Turkey though it sure does help to pass the time if you think about it." crude language and female bosoms." Denis Lenoir; edited by Paul Hirsch; production designer Tracey Gallacher; produced by Mr. Avnet Avi Lerner Boaz Davidson Randall Emmett Daniel M. Rosenberg Alexandra Milchan Rob Cowan and Lati Grobman; released by Overture Films. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." Al Pacino (Rooster) Curtis Jackson (Spider) Carla Gugino (Karen Corelli) John Leguizamo (Detective Perez) Donnie Wahlberg (Detective Riley) Brian Dennehy (Lieutenant  Hingis) Trilby Glover (Jessica) and Rob Dyrdek (Rambo)." 
6824
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/12/movies/12burn.html
political backdrop and the central presence of a bearded George Clooney the film comes across a bit like “Syriana for Dummies ” though given the original this seems somewhat redundant. Here Mr. Clooney recycling the tic-y head bobs and weaves from his “ER” days plays Harry Pfarrer a federal marshal who is two-timing his wife Sandy (Elizabeth Marvel) with Osborne’s scarier better half Katie (Tilda Swinton). A serial adulterer who totes his own wedge-shaped bolster to his assignations Harry hooks up with Linda through the Internet an improbability only slightly less preposterous than the computer disk of C.I.A. secrets that ends up floating around Linda and Chad’s gym and leading them in a world of trouble. As Donald H. Rumsfeld once said “Stuff happens.”" partly I imagine because it sounds too corny. And fuzzy. After all what does it mean to say this or that director or film shows a lot of heart or too little? I ask only because “Burn After Reading ” the clubby predictably self-amused comedy from Joel and Ethan Coen has a tricky plot visual style er to burn but so little heart as to warrant a Jarvik 8." of balancing the loud yuks and cruel jabs with some delicate feeling mixing a real face in with the cartoons. Though “Burn After Reading” isn’t as uniformly flat as “The Hudsucker Proxy” (the Coens’ leaden bid for Preston Sturges’s dizziness) there’s a crushing sameness to the characters and their predicaments. With the exceptions of the hard-working supporting cast — notably J. K. Simmons as a C.I.A. bigwig and the equally reliable and welcome Richard Jenkins as a lovelorn gym manager — the characters have been conceived as variations on self-deluded boobishness. Some (like Katie) appear sharper than others others dumber (Linda) but they’re all punch lines in an overly extended joke." whom Ms. McDormand plays with a grin that tends to look more like a grimace perhaps because she’s been saddled with yet another one of the Coens’ ghastly pageboy dos. (Really? Again?) It’s a punishing look for a cruelly unflattering character whose narcissism is matched only by her witlessness. Jerry Lewis has made a brilliant career out of playing stupid but you never feel as if he loathes his disorderly orderlies because they’re slow on the uptake. The Coens in turn have made their careers with impeccable technique and an exaggerated visual style — they sure love their low-angle shots and traveling cameras — but it’s a wonder they keep making films about a subject for which they often evince so little regard namely other people." Frances McDormand (Linda Litzke) Brad Pitt (Chad Feldheimer) John Malkovich (Osborne Cox) Tilda Swinton (Katie Cox) Richard Jenkins (Ted) C.I.A. Superior (J. K. Simmons) and Elizabeth Marvel (Sandy Pfarrer)." as a nitwit gym rat with a Pepe Le Pew two-tone hair-stack twitches across the screen or the camera nuzzles one of the other goofy gargoyles so beloved by the Coens. Mr. Pitt’s Chad is the overripe second banana to Linda Litzke (Frances McDormand Joel Coen’s wife) who has some vague job at the gym where the two sort of work. Chad’s a buffoon (the hard body as soft brain) and Mr. Pitt has been charged with delivering a caricature rather than a character but because the actor loves playing sidemen and conveys such natural irrepressible (irresistible) sweetness he’s also one of the film’s saving graces." “Burn After Reading” is something of a shaggy sendup of an established genre and conventions in this case the espionage flick. The film opens and closes with a Google Maps view of the Earth that has already become a cinematic cliché a godly perspective that rapidly narrows in on the headquarters for the Central Intelligence Agency in Langley Va. There an analyst named Osborne Cox (John Malkovich) soon receives a demotion for boozing the first knot in an increasingly and intentionally tangled thicket of contrivances and coincidences mostly involving three favorite American (and Hollywood) preoccupations: money sex and self." produced and directed by Joel Coen and Ethan Coen; director of photography Emmanuel Lubezki; edited by Roderick Jaynes; music by Carter Burwell; production designer Jess Gonchor; released by Focus Features. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." the Coens like squeezing laughs out of potentially hazardous material whether they’re dumping a paraplegic out of a wheelchair for a chuckle as they do in their finest film “The Big Lebowski” (a comedy about the drama of friendship) or violently disposing of bit players as they do in their most recent “No Country for Old Men” (a drama about the comedy of death). They have a gift for the absurd and a penchant for cruelty tendencies that without the tempering quality of a recognizably human presence — Jeff Bridges’s glorious performance in “Lebowski ” Ms. McDormand’s emotionally nuanced one in “Fargo” — can make the Coens come across as insufferably superior and bullying. Comedy needs fools with funny faces but comedy without gentleness is often just sadism." 
6825
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/11/movies/11able.html
“Able Danger” toggles  between murky digital video and even murkier fake surveillance film. And though like-minded theorists may ascend from their basements to rally round its muddled premise this debut feature from the writer and director Paul Krik (who also goes by the name Dave Herman) is a classic example of too much foot-in-mouth and not nearly enough tongue-in-cheek." a Brooklyn coffee shop owner and conspiracy freak who would like to “change the world one latte at a time.” So when an overcooked femme fatale (Elina Lowensohn) requests his help in obtaining proof of C.I.A. involvement in the Sept. 11 attacks Thomas can resist neither her mission nor her hotness. Before you can say  “Sam Spade”  he’s chasing an encrypted hard drive while fending off religious fanatics German psychos and more corny accents than an “Austin Powers” marathon." directed and edited by Paul Krik; director of photography Charles Libin; music by Michael Montes John Roome Alexander Schiebel and Moby; art directors Martina Nevermann Josie Barth-Torres Willa Armbruster and Noah Ross; produced by Mr. Krik Katharina Lang and Ari Krepostman; released by Flatbush Athletics. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." “Able Danger” is a paranoid fantasy of geek superheroics that lunges desperately for  political relevance. And while that objective is not entirely baseless it might have been simpler to achieve had the movie’s retro style and hammy acting not skewed more toward the past than the present." 
6826
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/06/movies/06dang.html
Joe the lone wolf hires a petty thief named Kong (Shahkrit Yamnarm) to help with odd jobs and act as his subservient sidekick-protégé. Kong  is not nearly as insipid as the deaf-mute pharmacist (Charlie Young) Joe falls in love with presumably because she satisfies every retrograde Western fantasy of the passive Asian love slave." insipid qualities of “Bangkok Dangerous ” the most egregious is the most fundamental: The film is simply dreadful to look at. We have at long last reached the nadir of the Malnourished Mood at the cinema that sickly palate of grimy greens and blues ubiquitous since “The Matrix ” employed by thrillers with atmospheric pretensions." ”  which finds him furrowing his brow speaking in low dispirited tones and watching his stunt double zip around killing people on a motorcycle." ”  “Bangkok Dangerous” climaxes with the usual deserted warehouse massacre that finds our hero getting an edge on the bad guys by turning off all the lights. Ha! Are you kidding me? The lights were actually on in the first place?" if the film were better shot you’d only have a clearer view of derivative banality. Directed by the Pang brothers (Danny and Oxide) “Bangkok Dangerous” is a remake of their 1999 picture of the same name. The original a slick and shallow thriller about a conflicted assassin wasn’t so great to begin with though it blazes with moviemaking genius compared with this halfhearted update." Nicolas Cage for the role of the brooding floppy-haired assassin. Joe. Those whose memories reach back to 2002 when Mr. Cage starred in “Adaptation ” or even further back to 1996 when he won an Oscar for “Leaving Las Vegas ” might remember that the man who recently said yes to the starring role in “Ghost Rider” is in fact quite capable of acting." with a little help from his friends Joe realizes that maybe he shouldn’t kill everyone and that Thai food can be really really spicy which is cute when you’re on a date. And what does he learn about Mr. Cage who helped produce this fiasco?" you see has been hired to carry out four assassinations in the Thai capital. “The money’s good and I do what I’m told ” remarks our ambivalent killer formulating an ethos that seems to apply to the actor portraying him." 
6827
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/05/movies/05secr.html
as it heads toward catastrophe is as much the setting of the story as its subject and their fate as Jews under Nazi occupation is entangled in murky sticky domestic issues of jealousy betrayal and desire. An erotic spark ignites the first time Maxime and Tania meet — the day of his wedding to Hannah — and it causes plenty of guilt and tension. But it might have been safely (if agonizingly) extinguished in more peaceful times in which case François would never have been born." a former model and an expert diver seems not only like a perfect match for Maxime a gymnast and wrestler but also an embodiment of the Aryan ideal celebrated at the Berlin Olympics. (Mr. Miller’s inclusion of archival clips from those games emphasizes the resemblance.) She and Maxime who puffs up with French patriotism seem to be in flight not only from the Nazis and their spouses but also from the inconvenient fact of their Jewishness." a love triangle beautifully acted by Ms. Sagnier Mr. Bruel and Ms. De France. Ms. Sagnier emphasizes her vivacity over her beauty playing a modest spirited woman who knows that she can’t compete with Tania’s toned golden limbs and regal bearing." he learns from their friend and neighbor Louise (Julie Depardieu) as she gives him massages and vitamin treatments that Maxime and Tania and their families were terribly damaged by the terror and bigotry that overran Europe in the 1930s and ’40s." early and late is speculative and philosophical as the adult François calmly and dispassionately reconstructs what he knows of his parents and tactfully guesses at what he doesn’t." a French psychoanalyst who based his book (published in the United States as “Memory”) on his family’s history Mr. Miller sets out to solve mysteries and clarify ambiguities. Yet even as factual questions are answered and the basic curiosity of both the audience and the main character is satisfied “Un Secret” leaves in place a sense that something horribly and splendidly strange can lie under the surface of ordinary experience." with English subtitles) by Mr. Miller and Natalie Carter based on the novel by Philippe Grimbert; director of photography Gérard de Battista; edited by Veronica Lange; music by Zbigniew Preisner; production designer Jean-Pierre Kohut-Svelko; produced by Yves Marmion; released by Strand Releasing. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes. This film is not rated." based on a novel by Philippe Grimbert is called “A Secret” (“Un Secret”). But the gist of this story of repression and family tragedy is that secrets are rarely singular. What is hidden from sight and excluded from discussion has a tendency to multiply and expand." when François is played by Mathieu Amalric and the images are drained of color and then back into the anxiety and panic of impending and actual war. In those days Maxime spelled his last name Grinberg he was married to a woman named Hannah (Ludivine Sagnier) and the two of them occupied the stolid center of a large and complicated extended Jewish family." ” based on the writing of their affectionate and loyal son does not criticize them for this choice. Rather the film endows them and everyone around them with a dense and exquisite humanity so that their story is freed from the pressure of making a point or teaching a lesson. Instead terrible decisions and difficult emotions are laid bare even as the most profound secrets of history and of family life are respected." François is the skinny sickly son of two marvelously athletic parents. For a while he dreams up a stronger fitter more charismatic older brother to compensate for his own feelings of inadequacy. Only gradually does he learn that such a sibling — a half-brother named Simon the apple of his father’s eye — really existed." Patrick Bruel (Maxime) Ludivine Sagnier (Hannah) Julie Depardieu (Louise) Orlando Nicoletti (Simon) Valentin Vigourt (the 7-year-old François) Quentin Dubuis (the 14-year-old François) and Mathieu Amalric (the adult François)." then is the big secret:  a double a precursor and an alternate self for François. But the discovery of this lost brother opens the door for further revelations and deeper enigmas. François knows that his mother and father Tania (Cécile de France) and Maxime (Patrick Bruel) met sometime around the war and he imagines their courtship and early marriage as a romantic idyll in the shadow of atrocities nobody much talks about anymore." 
6828
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/05/movies/05save.html
“Save Me” has a lot of heart but little nerve and no surprise." Robert Gant (Scott) Judith Light (Gayle) Stephen Lang (Ted) and Robert Baker (Lester)." the stern yet loving mistress of Genesis house. But like everyone in the picture she’s saddled with a reductive motivation (a gay son lost to suicide) that undercuts the film’s genuine sympathy for the emotional hazards of gay life." as the unreconstructed gay might say look out girl! Here comes Scott (Robert Gant) a hunky fellow resident and the next thing you know Mark and Scott are kicking it with Satan over cigarettes and furtive man-on-man action." crosscutting between a day in the life of Mark (Chad Allen) a cocaine-addled young man with a taste for messy sex in cheap motels and a group of hymn-singing churchgoers with affiliations to the Genesis House a retreat devoted to converting gay men to heterosexuality. Mark hitting rock bottom is shuffled off to Genesis by his brother and with a quickness made possible less by the power of Jesus than by schematic screenwriting casts aside his old habits and cheerfully embraces shiny happy asexuality." screenplay by Robert Desiderio; director of photography Rodney Taylor; edited by Phillip Bartell; music by Jeff Cardoni; production designer Ray Kluga; produced by Christopher Racster Herb Hamsher Chad Allen Robert Gant and Judith Light; released by First Run Features. Chelsea Cinemas 260 West 23rd Street Chelsea. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6829
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/05/movies/05play.html
given the formulaic plot which finds Christopher pressed into filling in for his injured mother at the local community center teaching Ping-Pong to assorted goofballs then enlisting them as his “grasshopper” posse when he  enters  a table tennis tournament. En route to the big game come a few of the usual elements  —  a love interest; training montages; silly neo-imperialist white dudes   —  and a lot of fresh and funny insights." Jessica Yu a filmmaker best known for “In the Realms of the Unreal ” her inventive if overdesigned documentary about the outsider artist Henry Darger. Ms. Yu’s visual flair enlivens the verbal panache of her feature debut; “Ping Pong Playa” is a bright nimble diversion a quick-witted picture that’s fast on  its feet." Frank G. DeMarco; edited by Zene Baker; music by Jeff Beal; production designer Denise Hudson; produced by Anne Clements and Joan Huang; released by IFC Films. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." Andrew Vo (Felix) Khary Payton (J P Money) Jim Lau (Mr. Wang) Roger Fan (Michael Wang) Elizabeth Sung (Mrs. Wang) Javin Reid (Prabakar) Smith Cho (Jennifer) Peter Paige (Gerald) Scott Lowell (Tom) and Stephnie Weir (Cheryl Davis)." post-race sensibility “Ping Pong Playa” mines hip-hop comedy gold from the least gangsta context imaginable: the assimilated Chinese-Americans of suburban California." the underachieving son of Ping-Pong entrepreneurs Jimmy Tsai gently but hilariously burlesques hip-hop as a youth culture lingua franca. On the surface this is a matter of swagger and slang (“what up my ninja?!”) but there’s a deeper touching acknowledgment of braggadocio as persona how the commodified dissent of hip-hop lends itself to masking insecurities." 
6830
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/05/movies/05mist.html
Sophia Myles (Kate) Ciaran Hinds (Julius Foe) Jamie Sives (Alasdair) Maurice Roëves (Raymond) Ewen Bremner (Andy) and Claire Forlani (Verity)." late in the movie that she is just that is both superfluous and unconvincing. In her loneliness her toughness her perfect mix of maternal warmth and sexual adventurousness she is at heart a literary conceit an inhabitant of that realm of the male imagination where lust and sentimentality meet and mingle. But Ms. Myles inhabits the role with such crisp and understated wit that she manages to hold such doubts at bay. Common sense might suggest that a woman in Kate’s position should change her locks call the police or move to another town when a guy like Hallam shows up but somehow she never seems more sensible than when she does the opposite of what prudence might dictate." and never quite creepy enough to risk our not liking him." based on the novel “Hallam Foe ” by Peter Jinks; director of photography Giles Nuttgens; edited by Colin Monie; production designer Tom Sayer; produced by Gillian Berrie; released by Magnolia Pictures. At Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." but the film is also a nimble acrobatic tour of Edinburgh traipsing through narrow alleyways up drainpipes and across gables and gutters as it follows Hallam on his pathological  way." who has gained some skill and shed a bit of cuteness since “Billy Elliot”) would no doubt benefit from some counseling and  the melodramatic twists of the plot ultimately serve as a kind of substitute therapy. It’s certainly more entertaining to watch a confused young man work out his issues through kinky sex and daredevil wall-climbing than to be a fly on the wall as he talks things out with a shrink. And if the extremity of Hallam’s temperament tests the limits of our sympathy as well as our credulity Mr. Bell’s ability to seem by turns sweet and scary prevents us from losing interest entirely." even when the characters are a bit too broadly drawn like Ms. Forlani’s gold-digger or a philandering brute played by Jamie Sives. Ciaran Hinds a welcome presence wherever he goes — from “Munich” to “Miami Vice” to “Margot at the Wedding” — strikes the right notes of obliviousness and paternal worry as Hallam’s father vexed and concerned about his son even as he is unable to see how much of the boy’s waywardness is his fault." a personnel manager at an Edinburgh hotel says to a young co-worker after a few rounds of drinks one evening. As it happens both of them are in luck. Hallam Foe the co-worker in question is even creepier than Kate suspects. He has been stalking her  since before she hired him and his main extracurricular activities are peering across the rooftops into her windows and scrambling up to her skylight to spy on her as she sleeps has sex and practices her kickboxing." which was called “Hallam Foe” (the title of Peter Jinks’s novel) in Britain — is evidently troubled. Back home at his father’s estate which he fled for the Scottish capital Hallam was a seasoned  voyeur with a taste for dressing up in animal skins and lipstick. His treehouse served as a shrine to his dead mother. She drowned in the loch and Hallam is increasingly certain that she was murdered by his stepmother (Claire Forlani). Kate (Sophia Myles) first caught his eye because of her uncanny resemblance to poor old Mum (also embodied by Ms. Myles in photographs) and his fixation on her is both sexual and filial. Creepy indeed." icky and fond attention is certainly well chosen. Like Emily Mortimer who played Ewan McGregor’s dream woman in Mr. Mackenzie’s previous film “Young Adam ” Ms. Myles has the task of turning a phantasm of adolescent desire into a real person." 
6831
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/05/movies/05ital.html
including the expected abuse of the word “bracciole.”" “Everybody Wants to Be Italian” features annoying characters navigating unbelievable situations. “I literally dreamt the entire script ” Mr. Ipson says in the press notes. Now that I can believe." Funiculà ” la la la) and the regressive gender stereotypes. Then there’s the heroine whose lofty dating standards demand a partner who’s “a step up” from her vibrator and the hero who — cognitively at least — rates several rungs lower. And if you’re still not persuaded to just rent “Moonstruck” and be done with it ponder this: assuming the title was ever correct it won’t be by the time you exit the theater." Michael Fimognari; edited by Mike Saenz; music by Michael Cohen; production designer Marla Altschuler; produced by Jaime Burke and James Huntsman; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes. WITH: Jay Jablonski (Jake Bianski) Marisa Petroro (Isabella) John Kapelos (Steve) John Enos III (Gianluca) and Cerina Vincent (Marisa)." eight years after being dumped is still creepily stalking his now married ex. Jake is clearly several cheeses short of the sample platter but that’s not a problem for Marisa (Cerina Vincent) a gorgeous veterinarian who pursues a relationship despite Jake’s distinct lack of either a personality or a clue. Egged on by a trio of Jake’s co-workers — who armed with night classes in literature and psychology offer unoriginal postdate analyses — the couple stumble toward contrived-comedy bliss." 
6832
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/05/movies/05augu.html
in rapid succession his wife dies he loses his job at a chicken factory and he is evicted from the house where he has been living with his widowed daughter-in-law Lupe (Veronica Loren). Suddenly a widower with no place to go he develops a familial bond with Lupe whose husband died in a car accident four years earlier that is much deeper than  his  relationships with his two surviving biological children Victor (Abel Becerra) and Alice (Sandra  Rios)." its virtues turn into faults. Its elliptical style leaves unanswered questions the pace begins to feel choppy and the lyrical pauses become a recurrent tic. In the later scenes any of which would have made a satisfying ending your patience is exhausted. Between its festival screenings and its theatrical release “August Evening” has been edited to 128 minutes from 141. Another 20 minutes on the cutting-room floor could work wonders." ” Mr. Eska’s static camera fixes on minimalist images that evoke the textures of his characters’ lives. It lingers over the routines on the chicken farm and the processing of the birds and their eggs. The early twilight glow that illuminates many scenes evokes the consciousness of an older man with an uncertain future sadly gazing forward although  Mr. Castaneda looks a little too young for his character (late 50s rather than  10 years older)." Veronica Loren (Lupe) Abel Becerra (Victor) Walter Perez (Luis) Sandra Rios (Alice) Grisel Rodriguez (Andrea) and Cesar Flores (Salazar)." who had no acting experience while Mr. Castaneda was installing computer networks in San Antonio. Playing Jaime a stout silver-haired farm worker with a kind heart and failing health he is a solid screen presence who doesn’t “act” in any conventional sense." “August Evening” explores the strained family ties among illegal immigrants from Mexico and their children living in various parts of Texas. The first feature by Chris Eska who wrote directed and edited it won Pedro Castaneda a nomination for best actor at the 2008 Spirit Awards as well as the John Cassavetes Award for best feature made for under $500 000." directed and edited by Chris Eska; director of photography Yasu Tanida; music by Jonathan Hughes; production designer Elysia Van Deusen; produced by Connie Hill and Jason Wehling; released by Maya Entertainment Group. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 2 hours 8 minutes." “August Evening” conjures a sobering vision of the ingratitude of grown children. Compounding that ingratitude is their eagerness to leave behind their immigrant backgrounds of which their father is an uncomfortable reminder." Jaime pressures her to find a suitable husband but she resists and stubbornly thwarts the attentions of Luis (Walter Perez) a young butcher who ardently pursues her and eventually wears her down." Jaime and Lupe move to San Antonio to stay with Victor  and his wife Andrea (Grisel Rodriguez) who grudgingly take them in. Victor who has been out of touch with his father has two children Jaime didn’t know about. In the small crowded house Andrea’s temper frays and Jaime and Lupe are eventually pressured to leave. They stay briefly with Alice who has married an American businessman and been assimilated into suburban society." 
6833
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/05/movies/05adam.html
tragedy strikes and Anthony must fast-forward through detective training to avenge his beloved." the writer and director of “The House of Adam ” aimed for high-flying camp instead of low-rent earnestness his movie might have stood  a fighting chance. As it is this mopey tale of a love that dare not speak its name is no more than an inept wallow in closeted torment." the movie follows an impassive gay diner worker named Adam (Jared Cadwell) whose romantic options are limited to three mouth-breathing Bible-thumpers whose primary pastime is sounding out the word abomination. So when Anthony (John Shaw) joins the diner staff Adam is stoked. You can tell because he sweeps a little faster." Joseph White; edited by John Lavin; music by Ilia Eshkenazy; produced by Mr. Ameer; released by Hollywood Independents. At Anthology Film Archives 32-34 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes. This film is not rated." Jared Cadwell (Adam) Alexis Karriker (Nina) Thomas Michael Kappler (Albert Ross) Tiffany McFarland (Helen) Reeve Howard (Mark) Joella Brown (Monica) Rex Davison (Brett) Ted Ryan (David) and Scott Stepp (Roger)." “The House of Adam” is an unmitigated bore. I’d pay to see the further adventures of that severed head though." 
6834
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/03/movies/03pool.html
” a recurrent image that develops into a symbol of the gap between affluence and poverty shows the waiflike Indian protagonist Venkatesh (Venkatesh Chavan) perched in a tree gazing longingly at a private swimming pool on the other side of a hedge. A skinny 18-year-old man-child who longs to dive into the water Venkatesh ekes out a living cleaning hotel rooms and selling plastic bags on the street with his 11-year-old sidekick Jhangir (Jhangir Badshah). The shimmering pool in which no one seems to swim is a window onto a world he can hardly imagine." with English subtitles) by Mr. Smith and Randy Russell based on a short story by Mr. Russell; director of photography Mr. Smith; edited by Barry Poltermann; music by Didier Leplae and Joe Wong; produced by Kate Noble; released by Vitagraph Films. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." “The Pool” recognizes the ways poverty can trap its victims into a kind of eternal childhood and how psychologically it can be more comfortable to stay put than to move forward. Although Venkatesh is seven years older than his sidekick emotionally they are the same age. Seizing opportunity would mean growing up. And growing pains can be excruciating." by Mr. Smith and Randy Russell is based on Mr. Russell’s short story set in Iowa and relocated for the film to Goa the former Portuguese territory on the west coast of India. The tale’s smooth transition from one continent to another attests to the universality of its themes." the wealthy owner of the property with the pool and volunteers to help him with his gardening. Over the following weeks he becomes Nana’s paid part-time assistant. The wary employer-employee relationship gradually deepens into a mentor-protégé bond in which the rich man offers to be Venkatesh’s benefactor if he will move to Mumbai and go to school." Jhangir Badshah (Jhangir) Ayesha Mohan (Ayesha) and Nana Patekar (Nana)." Ayesha (Ayesha Mohan) a bored spoiled rebel who detests her father for reasons that are never explained. After initially resisting Venkatesh’s friendly overtures she joins him and Jhangir as they explore the city and on one jaunt visit an abandoned fort overlooking the harbor. This sequence is one of the most beautiful in a movie whose gorgeous high-definition photography lends the semi-tropical landscape a glowing luminescence. The lilting soundtrack by Didier Leplae and Joe Wong conjures the city’s past as a Portuguese outpost." rose-colored valentine to opportunity and hope it goes to a deeper more ambiguous place. Contemplating poverty from Venkatesh’s perspective it understands that his pursuit of upward mobility will require a terrifying leap of faith." “The Pool” avoids melodrama the better to capture the texture of Venkatesh’s vagabond life. Venkatesh tells several personal stories the scariest of which recounts his kidnapping by a New Zealand tourist who intending to take him overseas as a servant held him captive for three days until he escaped." neorealist film directed and photographed by the documentarian Chris Smith (“American Movie ” “The Yes Men ” “American Job”) blurs the line between fiction and reality. As the characters who have the same first names as the actors playing them amble around Panaji the capital of Goa you come to see them more as people living their lives than as a writer’s inventions." 
6835
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/30/movies/30disa.html
adolescent innuendo and childish jokes." ” the latest disposable parody of disposable Hollywood movies has a shelf life of about five minutes tops which may be slightly longer than it took to come up with most of its gags." Shawn Maurer; edited by Peck Prior; music by Christopher Lennertz; production designer William Elliott; produced by Peter Safran Mr. Friedberg and Mr. Seltzer; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." this flailing free fall through recent pop culture begins with a parody of “10 000 B.C.” featuring “Amy Winehouse” as a saber-toothed tiger who pulls a crystal skull from her beehive hairdo. It winds up with “Kung Fu Panda” (dude in a furry suit) and “Beowulf” (naked dude who keeps yelling “I am Beowulf!”) running amok through “Night at the Museum.”" Vanessa Minnillo (Amy) Gary Johnson (Calvin) Nicole Parker (Enchanted Princess) Crista Flanagan (Juney) Kim Kardashian (Lisa) Ike Barinholtz (Wolf) Tad Hilgenbrinck (Prince) Jason Boegh (Male Carrie) and Carmen Electra (Beautiful Assassin)." Home Skillet? “Disaster Movie” does little more than congratulate its audience on recognizing the source of its riffs.   “High School Musical” — ha ha ha! But it does manage a moment or two of chuckle-worthy dementia: in one scene Alvin and the Chipmunk puppets appear out of nowhere for a heavy-metal number under the influence of rabies then settle on Juno to feast on her spine." ” “Speed Racer”) obvious celebrity targets (Michael Jackson Sarah Jessica Parker)  and  gastrointestinal dysfunction.  And  there is a “Juno” figure who says things like “That is so L L Not Cool J.”" 
6836
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/30/movies/30coll.html
nudity copious alcohol consumption naughty language and general toilet humor crudeness." Daniel Stoloff; edited by David Codron; music by Transcenders; production designer Ethan Tobman; produced by Adam Rosenfelt and Marc Schaberg; released by MGM. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." and somehow they manage to attract the attention of some girls who not only buy that the guys are college age but also seem really to like them  — which is par for the course because taste certainly isn’t part of this film’s equation. But it’s the eventual moralizing that makes this journey of geek empowerment feel like a seemingly endless one." Kevin Covais (Morris Hooper) Andrew Caldwell (Carter Scott) Haley Bennett (Kendall) and Nick Zano (Teague)." like a totally insane time. With its rapid-fire bombardment of one gross-out moment after the next Deb Hagan’s “College” strains to sell itself as one crazy ride (raging parties! hot lesbian sex! bare breasts!) and chances are it won’t disappoint those looking solely for unadulterated raunch." slightly washed-out look better suited to a period piece the protagonists — the overweight wisecracker (Andrew Caldwell) the pasty geek (Kevin Covais) and the sensitive bore (Drake Bell) — are subjected to a series of humiliations at the hands of a particularly nasty fraternity before turning the tables lamely employing comparable tricks." 
6837
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/30/movies/30baby.html
Michelle Yeoh (Sister Rebeka) Mélanie Thierry (Aurora) Gérard Depardieu (Gorsky) Charlotte Rampling (High Priestess) Mark Strong (Finn) Lambert Wilson (Darquandier) Jérôme Le Banner (Killa) and Joel Kirby (Dr. Newton)." though this odd solemn disaster has made itself spoiler-proof by refusing to make any sense at all. The only explicable thing about “Babylon A.D.” is that it was not screened in advance for critics. Our judgments in any case may be superfluous since the director Mathieu Kassovitz has already publicly described it as “pure violence and stupidity.”" and while I hate to contradict an artist’s assessment of his own work — Mr. Kassovitz blames 20th Century Fox for compromising his political and metaphysical vision — a purely violent and stupid film might have been kind of fun. This one while it has some nice futuristic design touches (including grubby East Bloc housing projects and a splendidly renovated Harlem brownstone) combines badly executed action sequences with mystic mumbo-jumbo that I suspect not even a two-disc director’s cut DVD could make comprehensible." Mr. Kassovitz and Joseph Simas; director of photography Thierry Arbogast; edited by Benjamin Weill; music by Atli Örvarsson; production designers Paul Cross and Sonja Klaus; produced by Alain Goldman and Mr. Kassovitz; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." the slowest-moving action hero in movies travels over land and under water from somewhere in the former Soviet Union to New York City in the company of a nun (Michelle Yeoh) and a young woman named Aurora (Mélanie Thierry). Aurora is either some kind of biological weapon or some kind of messianic figure." whose acting credits include “Amélie” and “Munich ” might earn the benefit of the doubt for some of his earlier work as a director or at least for “La Haine ” his scrappy urban melodrama from 1995. On the other hand he is also the director of “Gothika ” a Halle Berry horror vehicle that now that I think of it makes me look a bit more kindly on “Babylon A.D.”" ” says his character a tattooed mercenary with the curious name Toorop. “You can’t always walk away.” I’m sure he wishes otherwise. I certainly do." one of the world’s great movie stars but also Charlotte Rampling as a high priestess and Gérard Depardieu (wearing the most superfluous prosthetic nose extension in film history) as a Russian mobster. What they are doing here is not for me to say though perhaps Mr. Diesel in an early voice-over offers a clue." 
6838
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/29/movies/29yous.html
“Maria Bethânia: Music  Is Perfume” moves to the samba rhythms that Ms. Bethânia the charismatic Brazilian diva describes as “sadness dancing.” There’s little that’s sad about Georges Gachot’s movie however; it captures its subject’s stylistic evolution from avant-garde warbler to romantic balladeer through a prism of Brazilian culture and history." with English subtitles; produced by CAB Productions Iris Productions and Dreampixies; released by ArtMattan Productions. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 8 minutes. This film is not rated." surrounded by familiars or alone with the camera Ms. Bethânia is an expressive force of nature whose honeyed voice could lure sailors to their doom. Without doubt they’d be dancing all the way." ” the filmmaker Pierre-Yves Borgeaud joins Mr. N’Dour the Senegalese singer on a magical history tour of the music created by African slaves and their descendants. The goal is to stage a concert on Gorée an island just off the coast of Dakar with a museum commemorating victims of the Atlantic slave trade; the preparation is a melodic road trip from Geneva to Atlanta to New Orleans and beyond embracing musicians from each location and styles including traditional gospel and classic jazz." with English subtitles) produced and directed by Georges Gachot; director of photography Matthias Kälin; edited by Ruth Schläpfer and Anja Bombelli; released by ArtMattan Productions. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes. This film is not rated." the music documentaries “Youssou N’Dour: Return to Gorée” and “Maria Bethânia: Music  Is Perfume” trace influences and celebrate connections with tunes to make you tap and sway." 
6839
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/29/movies/29serv.html
the Czech satirist who died in 1997 and is best known for writing the screenplay for Mr. Menzel’s 1966 classic “Closely Watched Trains ” as well as the novel on which it was based. There is hardly a moment in this new film in which you are not aware that its absurdist view of the human condition was shaped by traumatic 20th-century events." Skrivanek (Martin Huba) boasts that he once served the king of England. As Jan’s status rises he absorbs Skrivanek’s career advice and delights in showing off his acrobatic skills juggling platters of food." the plucky little waiter who bounces around central Europe in Jiri Menzel’s epic comedy “I Served the King of England ” has colossal ambitions. Catering to political and military fat cats at a fancy brothel in 1930s Czechoslovakia his appetites are piqued as he observes these pompous boors dandling prostitutes on their laps while washing down obscenely rich banquets with beer and brandy." who has the poker face and agility of a silent clown defines the style of a film whose timing and physical comedy look back to 1920s slapstick. The banquet scenes including one in an elegant Prague hotel playing host to a pint-size Ethiopian emperor and his entourage are staged as witty spoofs of pomp and ceremony in which everyone looks foolish." sexual situations and some violence." the wonderful Bulgarian actor who plays the young Jan resembles a doll-like hybrid of Mikhail Baryshnikov and Derek Jacobi with a dash of Roman Polanski. Jan will cheerfully do what it takes to survive and flourish without political commitment or moral scruples." with English subtitles) and directed by Jiri Menzel based on the novel by Bohumil Hrabal; director of photography Jaromir Sofr; edited by Jiri Brozek; music by Ales Brezina; production designer Milan Bycek; produced by Petr Dvorak Helena Uldrichova Dusan Kukal Vit Komrzy and Luba Feglova; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes." people from all levels of society will grovel to pick them up. That lesson in greed and its ramifications help form Jan’s pragmatic value system. Another useful piece of advice he retains is that in a world of unstable currencies rare stamps are the safest investment." Jan works in a hotel that has been converted into an institute where giggling blond German women have been recruited to breed the master race with studly soldiers. Scenes of them frisking naked on the luxurious grounds suggest a pageant set in an insane asylum directed by Busby Berkeley. The place is soon transformed into a macabre rehabilitation center for wounded German soldiers" Liza travels to the Eastern front to work as a nurse and returns with a cache of priceless stamps stolen from abandoned Polish-Jewish homes. Suddenly Jan’s dreams of being a wealthy hotelier can be realized. Oblivious to the tides of history however he is unprepared when the Communists arrive to occupy his beautiful establishment. So busy looking out for himself that he fails to anticipate what should be obvious Jan embodies the central European Everyman as an archetypal naïf protected by his own innocence until reality arrives." the much older Jan Dite (Oldrich Kaiser who bears a strong resemblance to Mr. Barnev) is released from a Czech prison after serving just under 15 years and sent to live in a nearly deserted town on the Czech-German border. Here he ponders his past while rebuilding a ruined house. The scenes of the older Jan set in the early 1960s feel extraneous to the story of his life before his imprisonment and are dead spots in an otherwise lively and amusing satire." a blond German Sudeten girl and worshiper of Hitler who consents to marry Jan only after he undergoes medical tests to certify his Aryan bloodlines. As Jan makes passionate love to her she impatiently moves his head the better to concentrate on a portrait of Hitler on the wall." Oldrich Kaiser (Older Jan Dite) Julia Jentsch (Liza) Martin Huba (Front Waiter Skrivanek) Marian Labuda (Walden) Milan Lasica (Professor)  and Josef Abrham (Hotelier Brandejs)." whose name means John Child is a Chaplinesque symbol of a nation made cynical after being taken over first by Nazis and then by Communists within the span of a decade. Growing up in a place that exchanged one totalitarian nightmare for another who wouldn’t be cynical?" “Them that’s got shall get. ...” These scenes of marathon gourmandizing offer some of the most pungently satirical observations of unfettered gluttony ever filmed. While Jan serves these beasts (and discreetly services their women) his vision of becoming a wealthy hotelier begins to take shape." 
6840
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/29/movies/29shiv.html
Alejandro Springall with a flair for the surreal and a cast that knows its way around a stereotype. Set in a Jewish section of Mexico City the movie participates in the disastrous mourning of a pleasure-loving paterfamilias (Sergio Kleiner) who has keeled over at a party after one too many horahs. While multiple plotlines and myriad dysfunctions jostle for our attention — the obligatory shiksa mistress being only the least of them — a pair of wizened Jewish angels tally the deceased’s moral ledger with the creativity of an Enron accountant." he reminds us that ritual can ease reconciliation and that sometimes even meat and dairy can get along." Blanca Guerra (Julia Palafox) Sergio Kleiner (Moishe) Martín Lasalle (Isaac) David Ostrosky (Ricardo) Emilio Savinni (Nicolás) and Sharon Zundel (Galia)." Hebrew and Yiddish with English subtitles) by Jorge Goldenberg and Mr. Springall based on a story by Ilán Stavans; director of photography Celiana Cárdenas; edited by Madeleine Gavin; music by Jacobo Lieberman performed by the Klezmatics; art director Luisa Guala; produced by Mr. Springall and Maite Argüelles; released by Emerging Pictures. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." abortion Jewish ritual and a  mariachi band without curdling into complete lunacy deserves a modicum of respect. In the case of “My Mexican Shivah ” more would be pushing it." 
6841
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/29/movies/29fish.html
“Year of the Fish” straddles the wavering line between reality and its simulation with pleasing calm. Instead of the pulsing images of the Richard Linklater films “A Scanner Darkly” and “Waking Life ” you have a more subdued mellow style that’s easier on the eyes and the equilibrium. And the movie’s smudged skylines and pearly-pastel streets do much to soften the story’s sweatshop-and-slavery grittiness." Adam Silver; edited by Mr. Kaplan and Frank Keraudren; music by Paul Cantelon; production designer Mylene Santos; produced by Mr. Kaplan and Rocco Caruso; released by Gigantic Pictures. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." “Year of the Fish” packs more sadness than the familiar fairy tale but offers its own fantastical delights. Ye Xian’s party dress made of teardrops suits her — and her story — perfectly." a mousy naïf whose new job at a sleazy massage parlor promises happy endings — for the clients at least. When she balks at fulfilling her job description Ye Xian is demoted to cleaning toilets and cooking meals for the parlor’s wicked madam (Tsai Chin) and grasping employees. Little does she know that an enchanted fish a witchy soothsayer and a handsome musician are about to save her from her servitude." “Year of the Fish” updates an ancient Chinese version of the “Cinderella” story with imagination charm and just the right amount of sweetness." Randall Duk Kim (Auntie Yaga Old Man Foreman) Ken Leung (Johnny Pan) An Nguyen (Ye Xian) Lee Wong (Vinnie) Hettienne Park (Hong Ji) and Corrine Wu (Katty)." 
6842
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/29/movies/29djan.html
Toyomichi Kurita; edited by Taiji Shimamura; music by Koji Endo; production designer Takashi Sasaki; produced by Hirotsugu Yoshida and Toshinori Yamaguchi; released by First Look Studios. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." notably the contortions of Teruyuki Kagawa who plays the hapless unreliable and all-but-indestructible sheriff are gruesomely funny. But more often there is a frantic compulsive quality to the action. Fanboy intoxication with the idea of formal ingenuity too often stands in for the thing itself." Hideaki Ito (Gunman) Masanobu Ando (Yoichi) Koichi Sato (Kiyomori) Kaori Momoi (Ruriko) Yoshino Kimura (Shizuka) Yusuke Iseya (Yoshitsune) Takaaki Ishibashi (Benkei) and Teruyuki Kagawa (the Sheriff)." which concerns a feud hidden treasure and a gunslinger who comes to town for money and sticks around to see that justice prevails. An acknowledged source is Sergio Corbucci’s “Django ” a raw ripe 1966 Italian western but there are also references to Shakespeare’s “Henry VI ” Rambo and plenty of other high-  and low-cultural touchstones." but it is perhaps a little more puzzling since nearly everyone else in the movie is a Japanese actor speaking in a stylized version of the idiom of the Old West. Mr. Tarantino for his part sounds like a samurai from Texas. Or something." ” the latest offering from the protean and prolific Japanese director Takashi Miike is a feast for genre fetishists a loving and lurid pastiche of the spaghetti westerns that were themselves lurid pastiches of classic Hollywood cowboy pictures. It is fitting that the honorary master of ceremonies at this film-geek orgy is Quentin Tarantino dean of the international film-geek fraternity who elegantly disembowels a snake in the opening scene and who appears later to fill in some plot holes and speak in bizarrely accented English." or any other kind has anything to do with “Sukiyaki Western Django ” the gleeful cosmopolitanism of which is summed up in its jazzy nonsensical title. The original spaghetti-slingers dubbed English dialogue into the mouths of their international casts and Mr. Miike has taken the further step of allowing his performers in effect to dub themselves into English." you may notice is called Eastwood’s and the hero (Hideaki Ito) a taciturn marksman with no name is a campier less haunting cousin of the many gaunt and solitary riders Clint Eastwood has played over the years. This lone avenger strolls into a desolate mountain town to find the place gripped by a feud between the Genji who dress in white and their red-clad rivals the Heiki. In the middle are two women (Yoshino Kimura and Kaori Momoi) the mother and grandmother of a small boy whose mixed heritage is symbolized by the red-and-white roses growing on his father’s grave." which is essentially that Mr. Miike has a lot of energy and an extensive collection of DVDs." 
6843
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/29/movies/29sequ.html
directed and co-produced by Todd Stephens this wretched gaysploitation number is in fact the worst gay sequel ever." hosted by the flight attendant Amanda Lepore the legendary New York transsexual who helpfully informs her passengers that in case of a water landing her breasts may be used as a flotation device. Meanwhile the gossip guru Perez Hilton playing himself undresses a gay priest in the men’s bathroom — a tasteless gag that heralds the desperate antics to come." only one of whom Jonah Blechman as the ultra-flaming Nico returns to embarrass himself)." Jake Moser (Andy) Aaron Michael Davies (Griff) Jimmy Clabots (Jarod) RuPaul (Tyrelle Tyrelle) Lady Bunny (Sandi Cove) Wil Wikle (Jasper) and Euriamis Losada (Luis)." Los Angeles and Fort Lauderdale Fla." Carl Bartels; edited by Spencer Schilly; music by Marty Beller; production designer Thom Lussier; produced by Mr. Stephens and Derek Curl; released by TLA Releasing. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." “Another Gay Movie” spoofed the teen sex comedy from an unabashed shamefully unfunny perspective: that of shrill shallow sex-obsessed gay men who dress like 15-year-old boys and think Madonna remixes are the apex of Western culture." flagrant stereotype gets a workout: drinking and drugging promiscuity and primping mincing and squealing drag queens and porn stars. What ever happened to gay style and flair?" 
6844
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/27/movies/27trai.html
whose partner he becomes in organizing murderous operations in Europe and America seems genuine even as the audience doubts his loyalty to Omar’s cause." goodness knows moral equivalence — between terrorists and American law-enforcement officials. Rather the film’s sometimes clumsy efforts at topicality illuminate the conflicted psychology of its main character Samir Horn (Don Cheadle). Samir the son of an American mother and a Sudanese father is an  observant  Muslim and a veteran of the Army Special Forces a highly trained warrior whose allegiances are at first and for a gratifyingly long time afterward decidedly ambiguous." but Mr. Cheadle’s performance gives “Traitor” a sense of ethical gravity and real intrigue. The story demands that we entertain the possibility that Samir is a bad guy and also that he retain our sympathy when our doubts about him are most acute.  Mr. Cheadle as subtle an actor as any working in movies today accomplishes this without raising his voice or breaking a sweat. He has an ability to lay claim to the audience’s trust without quite reciprocating it to seem at once guileless and guarded." there is Fareed (Aly Khan) a murderous and mercenary master terrorist whose jihadist cant is indistinguishable from hypocrisy. But then again there is Omar (Said  Taghmaoui) one of Fareed’s lieutenants who if you put aside his vocation as a planner of suicide bombings seems like a pretty smart and thoughtful guy. American foreign policy is criticized in a general way —  hot-button words like Iraq Israel and oil are never uttered — and no one could accuse Mr. Nachmanoff of underplaying the danger of Muslim extremism." at every turn utterly sincere honest even at his moments of greatest duplicity." perhaps inevitably trips over some of its own complexities and confusions. On balance though Mr. Nachmanoff succeeds more often than he fails. A screenwriter (“The Day After Tomorrow”) making his debut as a director he does not attempt the breathless pace and kaleidoscopic cutting that have become the dominant manner in globe-trotting action-suspense filmmaking. (See “The Kingdom” and especially the last two Bourne pictures.) Instead he builds up suspense slowly cutting deliberately between the terrorists and their pursuers and withholding just enough information to set up surprises that don’t seem completely absurd." ” a somber absorbing and only moderately preposterous new thriller written and directed by Jeffrey Nachmanoff manages an impressive feat of economy condensing a vast and sometimes contradictory compendium of post-9/11 fears and anxieties into 110 swift minutes. The terrorists are all around us! The government is not doing enough to catch them! It’s doing too much!" despite  its unassuming style and tightly focused story tries to cover every side and cater to just about every possible ideological objection an effort at comprehensiveness that seems noble and a little nutty. There are for instance two F.B.I. agents Clayton and Archer. Archer (Neal McDonough) is prone to making insensitive remarks about Islam and the Bill of Rights and to smacking around suspected terrorists;  Clayton (Guy Pearce) a minister’s son with a soothing Southern accent delivers calm homilies on religious tolerance and holds a Ph.D. in Arabic studies." from Chicago to Marseille — and involves a lot of interesting minor characters from Samir’s former girlfriend (Archie Panjabi) to the intelligence bureaucrat (Jeff Daniels) who knows his deepest secrets. But at its best “Traitor” feels less like the usual rushed contrived action-travelogue than like an intimately scaled drama of ambiguous motives and fretful moral dilemmas. It holds your attention even if you never quite believe it." in other words an elegantly conceived and suavely played construct a theoretical being born out of a very real political conflict. Samir enigmatic and quiet though he is has less in common with Robert Ludlum’s Jason Bourne than he does with some of the cold-war specters dreamed up by John le Carré in his prime. Samir’s doubleness is built into his biography and whatever choice he makes is likely to constitute some form of betrayal." 
6845
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/movies/22haml.html
” a singing and dancing sequel to Shakespeare’s “bummer” (Dana’s word). Until that preposterous triumph he is the butt of the movie’s contemptuous humor. Early on we learn that at the insistence of his nagging wife Brie (Catherine Keener) he has been undergoing fertility tests.  Hoping to improve his sperm count he wears a ludicrous caftan to classes. He is also a recovering alcoholic who eventually slips." Alexander Gruszynski; edited by Jeff Freeman; music by Ralph Sall; production designer Tony Fanning; produced by Eric Eisner and Aaron Ryder; released by Focus Features. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." which occupies the film’s last 20 minutes is a garish hodgepodge in which “Hamlet” is run through a time machine to bring the characters back to life and give it a happy ending. It includes a moonwalking Jesus (Mr. Coogan) a local gay men’s chorus singing “Someone Saved My Life Tonight” and a mildly inflammatory anthem “Rock Me Sexy Jesus ” that is one step to the left of “Jesus Christ Superstar.” It all adds up to the kind of bad family entertainment likely to raise only a few eyebrows." he awkwardly roller-skates to and from school. Ms. Keener is wonderfully abrasive as the disdainful Brie who decides that anyone (especially Gary) would be a better mate than her husband." apply chewing gum and hurl them against the wall to see what sticks. If the style smacks of desperation enough of the jokes cling to make “Hamlet 2 ” directed by Andrew Fleming intermittently funny." the school cancels it  and Dana moves it to an abandoned warehouse. As community opposition to the production escalates a strident  civil liberties lawyer Cricket Feldstein (Amy Poehler) storms into Tucson to make sure the show goes on." his chaotic classes include only two serious drama students: closeted high-strung Rand (Skylar Astin) a star in his own mind and Epiphany (Phoebe Strole) a syrupy Christian goody-goody. Most of the other students are rowdy Mexican-Americans whom Dana in the movie’s jab at ethnic profiling mistakenly  assumes to be gang members. The surliest Octavio (Joseph Julian Soria) is also the most talented and is eventually cast as Hamlet. Unbeknownst to Dana he is the son of snooty high-achieving intellectuals and has won early admission to Brown." as a disgusted refugee from Hollywood who has moved to Tucson to be a nurse. She stops the movie dead in its tracks." Dana is a cousin of Corky St. Clair Christopher Guest’s eternally optimistic regional theater director in “Waiting for Guffman.” Mr. Coogan’s rough-and-tumble brand of physical comedy however is much closer to Jim Carrey than to Mr. Guest. Dana is not in the least cerebral even when declaring his credo “To act is to live.” Less a fully fleshed character than a bundle of tics doing pratfalls he is a slapstick puppet manipulated by the screenwriters (Mr. Fleming and Pam Brady)." Dana specializes in turning movies into theater. (The movie which was filmed in Albuquerque repeatedly ridicules Tucson as the cultural backwater to end all backwaters a fact that the city’s Chamber of Commerce can’t be happy about.) His latest production a dismal stage version of “Erin Brockovich ” has been savaged by the ninth-grade drama critic (Shea Pepe) in the school paper." Catherine Keener (Brie Marschz) David Arquette (Gary) Amy Poehler (Cricket Feldstein) Melonie Diaz (Ivonne) Joseph Julian Soria (Octavio) Skylar Astin (Rand Posin) Phoebe Strole (Epiphany Sellers) Shea Pepe (Noah Sapperstein) and Elisabeth Shue (herself)." the Inspirational Teacher film (like “Dead Poets Society” and “Mr. Holland’s Opus ” both of which Dana greatly admires) is the most prominent until the Let’s-Put-on-a-Show genre takes over. By this point the movie is so busy hurling notions at the wall that most of its opportunities for pointed satire are squandered." 
6846
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/movies/22trou.html
Scott Roberts a man with a gentle smile and a long thin scar grooved into a cheek made it out of their rickety attic alive along with some neighbors. They also made their way to a Red Cross shelter where they met Mr. Deal and Ms. Lessin yet another couple though one on the prowl for a story not salvation (in a way they got both). The filmmakers had flown from New York to Louisiana intending to follow National Guard troops who in returning from Iraq had left one disaster for another. A mouthpiece for the National Guard shut down their access but before the storm chasers could pack up Ms. Roberts pounced asking if they wanted a look at what she had caught on video." P. J. Raval and Kimberly Roberts; edited by T. Woody Richman; music by Davidge/Del Naja; released by Zeitgeist Films. In Manhattan at the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. This film is not rated." tagging alongside the Robertses and their sad-eyed new friend Brian also from the Lower Ninth including to Tennessee. There one of Ms. Roberts’s hosts tearfully vows that her son who has thoughts of joining the Army will not fight for a country that seems to have forgotten its black and its poor. Ms. Roberts who often puts her faith in God but tends to take matters into her own capable hands expresses little anger at the government. She isn’t especially at peace with her country just resigned so much so that she almost shrugs when she delivers the movie’s most devastating line saying it felt as if “we lost our citizenship.”" it was a familiar love of the camera that turned Ms. Roberts an aspiring musician into a documentary star. (That’s her rapping over the final credits under her nom de hip-hop Black Kold Madina.) As it does for a lot of young Americans — she is 24 when the movie opens — being in front of a camera seems perfectly natural to her something close to a generational birthright. Left motherless and impoverished during adolescence she had probably been looking for attention for a long time.  It took the sight of poor and black Americans desperately waving for help from rooftops and bridges though before she received her close-up. I just hope this movie gives her more than 15 minutes." the dynamo at the center of the documentary “Trouble the Water ” wasn’t a big woman with a great big mouth her video images of Hurricane Katrina and the floodwaters that washed away her world in 2005 might have ended up as just another pixelated smear on YouTube. Happily for her and the rest of us the filmmakers Carl Deal and Tia Lessin both of whom have done time working with Michael Moore realized that Ms. Roberts was a dream of a documentary subject. She didn’t just fill the frame with her outsize personality and outlaw swagger she also shook it up with raw images of snatched saved and lost lives." though of course Katrina itself carries the stench of politics as a clip of a dazed-looking Michael D. Brown who was then director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency affirms. Save for some righteous indignation at the close “Trouble the Water” makes its points without didacticism perhaps guided by the Robertses who are interested in surviving not grandstanding. That’s true even weeks after the storm when they Brian and the filmmakers return to New Orleans where the streets are clogged with mud and debris. A dead dog rots in the sun and inside one shabby home the body of Ms. Roberts’s uncle bloats in the heat. She goes inside while the camera idles behind at a respectful distance." she videotaped the gathering dark clouds and her stranded neighbors with a newly bought camera watching with mounting concern as the drizzle grew into a deluge. Her rough untutored camerawork has an ugliness and urgency that only add to the escalating sense of chaos and unease. As her sightlines roughly shift from one fugitive image to the next — wary adults giggly children nervous dogs a stop sign that will soon be almost entirely under water — you can feel the pressure of the moment. Excitement courses through her free-ranging chatter and the palsied swerving visuals." not just a personal portrait. Working with the editors T. Woody Richman and Mary Lampson they have created an ingeniously fluid narrative structure that when combined with Ms. Roberts’s visuals news material and their own original 16-millimeter film footage ebbs and flows like great drama. The early part of the movie is dominated by the Robertses’ seeking higher ground in their home as the water rises from street to porch and beyond while the remainder follows them as they sift through the storm’s wake searching for a new start in a city that has all but shut down." 
6847
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/movies/22race.html
vividly murderous rounds the Death Race itself is a tour de force of no-nonsense neo-grindhouse. Anchored by the ever-dependable Mr. Statham and his gruff buff stoicism the movie is legitimately greasy authentically nasty with a good old-fashioned sense of laying waste to everything in sight — including the shallow philosophizing and computer-generated fakery that have overrun the summer blockbuster." ” a delectable bit of B-movie savagery that actually does feature pipe melees among much other kicky (and punchy and impaled-by-a-metal-spikey) ultraviolence." fury mounting and muscles rippling Jensen is pressed into fending off a grimy assortment of gearhead sociopaths with the promise that if he wins the race he’s free to go. Needless to say things are about to blow up quite literally in everyone’s face." where the worst of the worst participate in the wildly popular Death Race showdown an ice-queen warden named Hennessey (Joan Allen slumming with style) faces a crisis. Her star driver a mask-wearing psychopath named  Frankenstein has just met his maker at the tip of a missile. In a bid to maximize ratings Hennessey hatches a plot to replace Frankenstein with Jensen Ames (Jason Statham) a former racing champ." Tyrese Gibson (Machine Gun Joe) Ian McShane (Coach) and Joan Allen (Hennessey)." a low-rent genre artisan who seems to have figured out a thing or two since staging “Alien vs. Predator” (or at least found a better crew to back him up) “Death Race” is a supercharged junkyard apocalypse powered by an unabashed relish for  brutal comeuppance and a flair for delirious vehicular mayhem." just solid monosyllabic obscenities; no flights of digital fancy just souped-up monster cars flipping end over end in a napalm blaze and crashing in a crunch of flaming metal ouch." maiming bruising beating impalement immolation detonation decapitation and a flagrant disregard of automotive etiquette." based on the screenplay “Death Race 2000 ” produced by Roger Corman and written by Robert Thom and Charles Griffith from the story by Ib Melchior; director of photography Scott Kevan; edited by Niven Howie; music by Paul Haslinger; production designer Paul Denham Austerberry; produced by Paula Wagner Jeremy Bolt and Mr. Anderson; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes." updated from the 1975 cult classic “Death Race 2000 ” is simple sick and satisfying. In the year 2012 in response to the collapsing American economy shady corporations have taken over the prison system and reap huge profits by staging gladiatorial pay-per-view contests among the prisoners." 
6848
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/movies/22momm.html
“Momma’s Man” is a touchingly true film part weepie part comedy about the agonies of navigating that slippery slope called adulthood. It was written and directed by Azazel Jacobs a native New Yorker who has set his modestly scaled movie with a heart the size of the Ritz in the same downtown warren where he was raised. Being a child of the avant-garde as well as an A student he cast his parents the filmmaker Ken Jacobs and the artist Flo Jacobs as the puzzled progenitors of his centerpiece a wayward son of bohemia Mikey (Matt Boren)." small cast and limited budget “Momma’s Man” looks deceptively humble. But Mr. Jacobs has succeeded at  one of the most difficult tasks given a director which is to make a character come alive through the filmmaking not exposition. Mikey dissembles freely though he never explains what he’s going through as he dodges in and out of the loft evading his wife’s calls and his father’s searching eyes. Mr. Jacobs gives his actors words they can use not dialogue to chew as in the hilarious-horrible scene in which Mikey hides inside the bathroom while his mother tries to ease his pain with a maddening litany of maternal comforts —  cereal tea coffee —  yet somehow forgetting the breast milk." growing up tends to be a job for either Aryan Youth types or the oddballs and outsiders who long a staple of both sitcoms and the Sundance Film Festival have migrated to big Hollywood in droves. But growing up Apatow style just means learning to divide your attention between your joystick and the little lady who loves you just the way you are flab and all. Real life is harder as is real art. The younger Mr. Jacobs who has spent the last decade or so learning how to make better and better films with a handful of shorts and two worthy features takes a generally unsentimental view of his blobby big baby. Mikey may get down on all fours and crawl on the floor but the filmmaker never pampers him." creeping under its blanketing shadows not much else about him is. With his sad moon face and small Buddha belly he looks like a middle manager who got off at the wrong subway stop and somehow wandered into the 1960s. He’s a straight arrow in a quiver full of zigzags and so seemingly out of place that it’s both a wonder he ever fit in the loft and no surprise when he starts stripping off his clothes. Eventually he’s stumbling about in long underwear like an overgrown toddler." but to harp on the similarities between the man calling the shots behind the camera and the melancholic trying to break free in front of it would miss the point. Like any artist Mr. Jacobs has shaken down life for what it can give him. That life includes his parents who belong to a generation of Manhattan artists who have become as exotic as the last of the Mohicans. These are people who helped create not just a child but also a world. In “Momma’s Man ” Mr. Jacobs honors both. “A dewdrop can reflect the universe ” the Soviet filmmaker Alexander Dovzhenko is supposed to have said which is as perfect a summation of this lovely film as I can imagine." “Momma’s Man” catches the rhythm of life through drifty interludes fragmented exchanges and moments so delicate they would break in rougher hands. Shortly after the opening credits Mikey who had been visiting his parents during a winter trip decides not to return to his wife and infant in Los Angeles. Instead he returns to the parental loft and mumbling something about the flight crawls into his old lair. There in a corner aerie overlooking Chambers Street he sinks into childhood: he rummages through grubby trinkets and treasures ties a tiny superhero cape around his neck (almost as if he hoped its lightning bolt could give him a jolt) and buries his nose in comic books." Flo Jacobs (Mom) Ken Jacobs (Dad) Richard Edson (Tom) and Dana Varon (Laura)." nibbling at food scratching his rear telling another lie to his wife he goes deeper as does the film. He’s at ease in this space part tomb part womb and almost swallowed up by it. There are times when he seems lost amid its disorder adrift in a secondhand shop crowded with bric-a-brac toys paintings and an upright piano film reels cans and projectors. (Is he collecting or a collectible?) In one startling scene Mr. Jacobs casually (carefully) positions him next to the head of a doll resting on a shelf a juxtaposition that makes the character look as if he were inside a Joseph Cornell box another precious relic in a fetishistic assemblage." partly because Mikey seems so colorless alongside all this glorious stuff. “Momma’s Man” is an extraordinarily tender film — Mr. Jacobs and his camera dote on his parents — but it’s more complex than the valentine to Mom and Dad I originally had it pegged as when I first saw it at Sundance. From some angles the loft comes across like a phantasmagoric playground but it doesn’t appear to offer a lot of room to stretch much less to grow. Yet as the repeated two-shots  of his parents imply Mr. Jacobs is also acknowledging a simple truth about parents and children too rarely broached in American movies particularly in an indie scene enslaved by juvenilia: There’s more to your parents than you." Tobias Datum; edited by Darrin Navarro; music by Mandy Hoffman; produced by Hunter Gray and Alex Orlovsky; released by Kino International. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6849
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/movies/22ious.html
trade deficits and Wall Street’s influence on national monetary policy Patrick Creadon’s resolutely nonpartisan movie tracks America’s “fiscal cancer” through centuries of budgetary highs and lows. Packaging his inconvenient truths with as much humor as he can muster under the circumstances Mr. Creadon balances his talking heads and pie charts with the folksy progress of the Fiscal Wake-Up Tour a grass-roots effort spearheaded by David M. Walker the former comptroller general of the United States and Robert L. Bixby of the Concord Coalition." “I.O.U.S.A.” highlights our unwise preference for short-term reward over long-term planning a weakness not shared by the film’s exemplary Chinese household which saves more than half of its $10-a-day income. The movie’s wrist-slapping tone however is softened by Mr. Walker’s eloquence and Mr. Bixby’s rueful self-deprecating charm as they trudge tirelessly from one town hall to another urging Americans to save rather than spend. Good luck boys: Suze Orman has been working on that for years." “I.O.U.S.A.” tackles the unsexy topic of our soaring national debt and its likely consequences for present and future Americans — or at least those who survive the tsunamis water shortages and Beijing-level air quality promised by Al Gore." 
6850
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/movies/22sens.html
“The Sensation of Sight”  has visual pizazz to spare snooping  on the actors from weird  angles or arranging them into self-conscious tableaux. The talk alas is no less baroque mixing impromptu philosophical ruminations with contrived locutions. Joined to a maddeningly erratic structure that withholds connective tissue this artful business bespeaks a passion for moviemaking at the expense of storytelling." this archly mannered tale stars David Strathairn as Finn an English professor in the grip of a spiritual crisis he confronts by abandoning his job and wandering around selling encyclopedias." porting his wares in a shabby-chic wooden box and dressed in the uniform of secondhand indie whimsy (natty gray suit and white Converse) while about him orbits a supporting cast of equally damaged equally phony figments of the imagination." but as this long lugubrious weepie makes its way toward revelation and redemption it becomes clear that the really oppressive thing here is the filmmaking itself." 
6851
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/movies/22long.html
in a nutshell is the plot of “The Longshots” —  and a million other movies. What makes this one different? Absolutely nothing. (Sure it’s based on a true story but I mean come on whatever.)" each begrudging the other’s company they toss around a football and lo! The girl’s got some kind of arm on her!" give me some of that Hollywood magic music ” one  imagines this hard-core rocker in his capacity as cheesy  family-film hack saying to his (uncredited) composer. “Nah man a little more sentimental and sparkly. That’s it! Now put it everywhere man. Awesome. Work it out dude I’m going to lunch.”" as their sad little town has a useless high school football team. One or two montages later the girl pulls her self-esteem together to try out for the team. One or two montages past that and the uncle rising above his funk is cheering from the sidelines as the girl leads the team to victory and a showdown at the Big Game." 
6852
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/movies/22dare.html
the film deserves to be seen if only for its wealth of rare historical footage and powerful eyewitness testimony. Moving between the 1963-64 segregation  protests in St. Augustine Fla. and the pitiful living conditions endured by many of the city’s black residents today the movie captures the past more lucidly than the present. Transitioning awkwardly from newsreels  of ranting white segregationists to current interviews with wretched black families Mr. Dean crams too many incidents into too little time." ” he maintains casting himself as a neutral businessman and Mr. Dean to his credit focuses not on vilifying his subject but on unveiling a time when doing the right thing demanded more courage than most people possessed." whose Monson Motor Lodge was the scene of recurring protests. Remembering the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as “a fancy manipulator ” Mr. Brock is unrepentant of his 1963 decision to dump acid into a swimming pool filled with peaceful protesters." and outrage however justified can cloud argument. In the civil rights documentary “Dare Not Walk Alone ” the writer and director Jeremy Dean makes a valiant attempt to juxtapose past and present but his goal is consistently undermined by an execution so muddled it’s almost unwatchable." 
6853
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/movies/22bunn.html
” Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith “House Bunny” puts a cheerful spin on its many clichés. This particular wheel hasn’t been reinvented but at least it gets a nice fresh coat of bubblegum-pink paint and a star to pilot it with aplomb." it’s a pep-stepping breast-jiggling hippity-hop to the next best thing to chez Playboy: the sisterhood of the sorority." a little swearing." Shelley falls in with the obligatory clutch of “ugly girls ” a ragtag tribe of crypto-lesbians semi-midgets clueless nerds and sarcastic anarchists. OMG no wonder Zeta Alpha Zeta is about to be closed down for lack of pledges and heinous crimes against footwear. Makeover time! And ladies don’t forget “The eyes are the nipples of the face.”" fake bimbo par excellence master of the birdbrained double take our reigning queen of intelligent stupidity. On the sneaker-clad heels of “Smiley Face ” an inspired stoner farce from 2007 come the plastic stiletto shenanigans of “The House Bunny ” a breezy ditzy comedy about the misadventures of a Playboy bunny exiled from the chinchilla cocoon of Hugh Hefner’s mansion." 
6854
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/20/movies/20serr.html
with English subtitles; directors of photography Jürgen Behrens Patrik Busam Tom Kaiser Holger Russek and Alexander Thorbecke; produced by Westdeutscher Rundfunk  in association with ZDF. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated." Mr. Serra — whose father worked in shipyards and whose sculptures can suggest the inverted hulls of tankers — is an informative if unanimated guide. Leading us through the massive metal spirals and gracefully curved rectangles that seem to defy gravity he explains the spatial philosophy behind each mind-boggling piece (“We start with the void”) but all I could think was how the Lilliputians must have felt when confronted by one of Gulliver’s discarded apple peels. The style may be minimalist but the vision is gargantuan." their work speaks for itself. “Richard Serra: Thinking on Your Feet” follows the construction and 2005 installation of “The Matter of Time ” the sculptor’s  gigantic eight-piece commission for the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao Spain. (No rush: it’s guaranteed to be there for at least another 22 years.) As static and unadorned as the sculptures themselves the movie gazes with rapt attention as Mr. Serra expounds on his love of steel mills (“Like bakeries that have gone into alchemy”) and as he maps the complex layout of each piece with  tape measure and paper templates. Perhaps he distrusts 3-D computer software?" 
6855
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/20/movies/20rock.html
A.D.D goes on the road and Fish finally gets to live the wild rock lifestyle he always longed for as his sober band mates look on in amazement. The movie carries off the trick of conjuring nostalgia for the bad old days when bands trashed hotel rooms and drank themselves into oblivion while making such behavior appear pathetic." based on a story by Ryan Jaffe; director of photography Anthony B. Richmond; edited by George Folsey Jr.; music by Chad Fischer; production designer Brandt Gordon; produced by Shawn Levy and Tom McNulty; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes." Fish agrees to be a substitute drummer in A.D.D an amusingly named teenage band made up of  Lisa’s schlubby keyboard-playing son Matt (Josh Gad);  Amelia (Emma Stone) the group’s scowling quasi-punk bassist; and Curtis (the pop teen heartthrob Teddy Geiger) its mopey lead singer and songwriter." the band rehearses by Webcam with Fish playing nude in the ratty basement of a Chinese restaurant. Clips of “the Naked Drummer ” as he is called find their way onto YouTube and A.D.D. becomes an Internet sensation. Matchbox Records the same label that signed Vesuvius two decades earlier comes calling in the person of David Marshall (Jason Sudeikis) the ne plus ultra of sleazy jive-talking record executives." he is perfectly adequate in the role of a superannuated 41-year-old teenager with a chip on his shoulder. His character Robert Fishman a k a Fish is a flamboyant drummer who as the movie begins is cheated out of his  moment of glory when a record company offers his heavy metal band Vesuvius the moon and stars on the condition that he be replaced by an executive’s nephew. The offer is too sweet to refuse and Fish ends up stewing in wretched obscurity for 20 years before an unlikely second chance at rock ’n’ roll redemption presents itself." at Matt’s high school prom Fish astounds his band mates by ostentatiously vomiting in his hand which he then sticks in his pocket. The “pocket full of puke” ritual he proudly declares is the rock ’n’ roll equivalent of carrying a rabbit’s foot. Although his out-of-control drum solo ruins the prom A.D.D. decides to stay together after Fish vows to get them a real club gig a promise on which he makes good." ” you can’t help wondering if Mr. Wilson (from “The Office”) is inhabiting a role that was originally turned down by Jack Black. Despite the maniacal glint in Mr. Wilson’s eyes he is a decidedly nerdy hell-raiser in comparison with Mr. Black who conjures memories of the rampaging John Belushi. Mr. Wilson for all his quirky charm is no volcano." Christina Applegate (Kim) Jeff Garlin (Stan) Jane Lynch (Lisa) Will Arnett (Lex) Josh Gad (Matt) Teddy Geiger (Curtis) Howard Hesseman (Gator) Emma Stone (Amelia) and Jason Sudeikis (David Marshall)." Kim (an ill-used Christina Applegate) who is chaperoning the tour and has her own fond rock ’n’ roll memories. The inevitable showdown between A.D.D. and Vesuvius takes place on the eve of Vesuvius’s induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland the hometown of both bands. In the 20 years since Vesuvius dumped Fish its members have developed conspicuously phony British accents." ” directed by Peter Cattaneo (“The Full Monty”) has its witty moments the movie is encrusted in rock lore and stale attitudinizing borrowed from “This Is Spinal Tap” and “School of Rock ” each of which it shamelessly cannibalizes. Most disappointingly the music is tepid mediocre pop pastiche. There is absolutely nothing special about A.D.D. In its portrayal of a rock culture that was once synonymous with liberating self-expression everything is secondhand and done by rote. Hip has become rigidly thuddingly square." 
6856
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/16/movies/16mirr.html
an alcoholic ex-cop and a mess of shattered glass drive “Mirrors ” a minor chiller and major downer from the talented Alexandre Aja." I’d like to see a protagonist motivated by something more epic than the safety of the wife and kids) before leading — of course! — to a monastery. At this point Mr. Aja (who also wrote the screenplay with Gregory Levasseur) blows his entire Windex budget on an overcomplicated second half of amplified effects and diminishing returns." sliced carotids and a disassembled mandible." “Mirrors” offers several cringe-worthy set pieces and a sneakily nasty ending. Wearing his “24” face throughout Mr. Sutherland is believably beleaguered though not even as Jack Bauer did he ever pull a gun on a nun. It’s good to see him stretch." Paula Patton (Amy Carson) and Amy Smart (Angela Carson)." Maxime Alexandre; edited by Baxter; music by Javier Navarrete; production designer Joseph Nemec III; produced by Mr. Levasseur Alexandra Milchan and Marc Sternberg; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes." ” the new film features Kiefer Sutherland as Ben a disgraced New York City police officer battling the consolation of Jack Daniels and straining the last nerve  of his estranged wife (Paula Patton). Ben’s new job as night watchman at a burned-out department store would probably not have been approved by an A.A. sponsor given its abundance of spooky mirrors that sprout phantom hand prints and manipulate his reflection — rather horribly as it turns out." 
6857
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/16/movies/16bach.html
the brazenly artificial “Saawariya” — a kind of Bollywood “One From the Heart” — was a box-office flop and undeservedly panned. But it didn’t hurt Ranbir Kapoor’s career. He’s a star and he carries “Bachna Ae Haseeno ” his second movie playing Raj a Don Juan who woos three lovelies: the innocent Mahi (Minissha Lamba) the ambitious sexpot Radhika (Bipasha Basu) and the self-possessed Gayatri (Deepika Padukone)." though in the remorse and redemption sequences. Blame it on his puppy-dog sweetness a quality that will serve him well as a Bollywood leading man. And Ms. Basu helps contributing some believably bad comic behavior when Radhika becomes a pampered ill-tempered movie star." Bipasha Basu (Radhika) Deepika Padukone (Gayatri) and Minissha Lamba (Mahi)." glorious scenery (locations include Switzerland Italy Australia and even India) and 360-degree pans “Bachna” starts too cute. But it grows more serious and interesting as it contemplates the various permutations of romance in a culture with rapidly changing sexual mores. Does Radhika lose Raj because they have sex before marriage? Can Gayatri have a career a love life and some kind of freedom?" with its chugging catchy horn riff: it conjures some groovy bell-bottoms thriller and no wonder. It’s a retooled version of a song from the 1977 film “Hum Kisise Kum Naheen ” composed by R. D. Burman a powerhouse who wrote more than his fair share of Bollywood’s best music. That movie’s star? Rishi Kapoor Ranbir’s dad." with English subtitles) by Devika Bhagat based on a story by Aditya Chopra; director of photography Sunil Patel; edited by Ritesh Soni; production designer Sharmishta Roy; produced by Aditya Chopra; released by Yash Raj Films. Running time: 2 hours 35 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6858
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15barc.html
Patricia Clarkson (Judy Nash) Penélope Cruz (Maria Elena) Kevin Dunn (Mark Nash) Rebecca Hall (Vicky) Scarlett Johansson (Cristina) and Chris Messina (Doug)." discreet sex." but that wouldn’t be true to Mr. Allen for whom desire remains an agony. Still he’s enough of an entertainer to give the audience its pleasures which partly accounts for Ms. Johansson. She isn’t much of an actress but it doesn’t terribly matter in his films: She gives him succulent youth and he cushions her with enough laughs to distract you from her lack of skill. The appealing Ms. Hall whose jaw line and brittle delivery evoke Katharine Hepburn furnishes an actual performance one that tinged with sadness makes evident that this is as much a tragedy as a comedy." who plays a combustible Judy to Mr. Bardem’s smoldering Punch. As Maria Elena Juan Antonio’s unstable former wife (an incident with a blade botched their happily ever after) Ms. Cruz has her own type to surmount which she does with fire smoke and comedy. With her artfully tousled hair and watchful eyes Maria Elena is a classic screen siren (and totally crazy chick) but one with the pulse of a real woman. Ms. Cruz slipping between Spanish and English (the latter was once a serious obstacle for her) does especially nice work with her voice which seductively lowers and sometimes rises with animal intensity suggesting a more variegated interior world than that provided by Mr. Allen’s writing." “Vicky Cristina Barcelona” is a rueful comedy about two young American women who during a summertime European idyll savor many of the Continental delicacies that such travelers often take pleasure in: art music culture yes but also strange bodies and unexpected dreams. These bodies and dreams open possibilities for the women intimating freer somehow different lives despite the persistent tugging of a voice that hovers at the edge of this story trying to pull it and its characters down to earth where desire can fade quickly." which weaves in and out of the story like a thread is spoken by the actor Christopher Evan Welch but more rightly belongs to Woody Allen the film’s writer and director. Although “Vicky Cristina” trips along winningly carried  by the beauty of its locations and stars  —  and all the gauzy romanticism those enchanted places and people imply  —  it reverberates with implacable melancholy a sense of loss. Mr. Allen may be buoyed (like the rest of us) by his recent creative resurrection but this is still the same glum clown who after the premiere of “Match Point ” his pitch-black near pitch-perfect 2005 drama commented that cynicism was just an alternate spelling of reality. Ah life! Ah Woody!" wrapping himself around the two women with blissful insinuating sensuous ease. He’s the celebrated painter Juan Antonio one of those artistic sybarites who attack both women and canvases with bold strokes. Eyes hooded smile taunting he invites the Americans to fly away for the weekend  —  a jug of wine a loaf of bread thou and thou  —  a proposition that inspires mockery from Vicky and girlish excitement in Cristina. Mr. Bardem relieved of his ghoulish Prince Valiant bob from “No Country for Old Men ” invests the cliché of the Latin lover with so much humor and feeling that he quickly vanquishes the stereotype." ” by contrast generally move fluidly  —  bopping and weaving going here pausing there  —  a looseness that works contrapuntally with the voice-over’s insistent forward drive. Delivered in novelistic third person the narration allows Mr. Allen to dispense with large chunks of exposition to fill in the narrative gaps yet it also puts some aesthetic distance between him and his characters. The film feels personal —  “Sentimental Education ” a touchstone here is one of the things that makes life worth living as he says in “Manhattan” —  though not claustrophobic another cloyingly needy dispatch from a ravenous id. What Mr. Allen says about life and disappointment still sounds very Woody but these days he seems content to speak through his characters not just for them." wilderness of a heart that knows what it wants even when the rest of the body does not! Sensible Vicky (Rebecca Hall) insists that she knows what she wants  —  her dull fiancé in New York for one  —  while dreamy Cristina (Scarlett Johansson) does not. The two have traveled to Barcelona so that Vicky who speaks little Spanish can work on her masters in Catalan culture while Cristina plays her foil and we play virtual tourist amid the city’s Gaudí splendors. With the narrator setting the brisk at times rushed pace the women move in with some acquaintances (Patricia Clarkson and Kevin Dunn) but their sentimental education doesn’t really begin until they meet one of Spain’s national treasures: Javier Bardem." Javier Aguirresarobe; edited by Alisa Lepselter; production designer Alain Bainée; produced by Letty Aronson Gareth Wiley and Stephen Tenenbaum; released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer and the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." but it’s a relief that he has moved away from the safety and provincialism of his New York. Working in Britain for his previous three films and in Spain for this one has had a liberating effect perhaps because it’s made it easier for him to step down as a leading man. He gave himself a sizable role in “Scoop ” but mostly he fluttered around Ms. Johansson tossing off jokes. He was playing the fool rather than inhabiting one as had become his custom in those films in which he clutched at much younger actresses with whom like Fred Astaire after Ginger Rogers he never found the right rhythm." 
6859
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15girl.html
“Le Beau Serge ” and titles that follow) but this early tendency has happily given way to more complex portraits. Appealing yet elusive more question mark than answer Gabrielle like a lot of female characters tends to be acted upon — her salacious boss and fretful mother do their share of pushing and pulling — rather than act on her own behalf. Even so she is also more provocative than the pretty plaything she first suggests despite the way she readily cedes to Charles and somewhat more reluctantly gives in to the more aggressive Paul. When she accompanies Charles into the film’s darkest shadows she takes the lead a smile edging her pout." who as befits her sunny smile and frigid last name (neige means snow in French) breezily delivers the weather on a regional Lyon news show. Flirty and flighty she sashays around work and town with an incaution that soon attracts two prominent locals Charles Saint-Denis (François Berléand dry and menacing) a distinguished novelist with louche tastes who is several decades her senior and Paul Gaudens (Benoît Magimel wonderfully absurd) the impetuous and babyish scion of a wealthy pharmaceutical family. With varying degrees of success and equally matched and monstrous egos the two men push and pull at Gabrielle having a go at a woman who for much of the film seems as pliant as a puppet an obedient pet a child." the screenplay was inspired by a true-life melodrama involving the 19th-century architect Stanford White (he designed the Washington Arch among other New York landmarks) his mistress and her violently aggrieved millionaire husband. But from  its air of decadence to its prowling camera movements this is a Claude Chabrol film from  lurid start to surrealistic finish.  Beginning with the film’s opening credits saturated in red and revealingly accompanied by a blast from Puccini’s “Turandot” — one of those rare classics in which the soprano makes it out alive — Mr. Chabrol has you firmly by the throat. (“What flickers red and warm like a flame but is not fire? ” a character asks in “Turandot.” Answer: “Blood.”)" with its cool surfaces threatening heat and hapless female heroine “A Girl Cut in Two” plays out more like a bold coda to Pauline Réage’s “Story of O.” It is in truth a rich textured divertissement from Claude Chabrol a sinister master of the art who after a series of vague if invariably entertaining cinematic sketches has returned to elegant tight form with an erotically charged beautifully directed story of a woman preyed upon by different men and her own warring desires." or so it seems the mysteries of “A Girl Cut in Two” happily never resolve. Mr. Chabrol’s characters are always ripely conceived yet evasive full of surprises and curious habits while remaining beyond easy psychological reach. Even a late back story can’t explain Paul’s reckless eccentricities (among them tossing objects at the camera which consequently retreats like a supplicating servant). Much like Charles who appears perverted by success — his publisher a Goth temptress played by Mathilda May looks like a dominatrix — Paul is a creature of his cloistered existence. Both men corrupt Gabrielle in their pathetic fashion but it is the larger world with its cruelties pettiness and lack of tenderness that almost does her in. The weather outside she learns is frightening." 
6860
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15anit.html
Sarah Vaughan and Ella Fitzgerald the big three of 1940s and ’50s female jazz singers. She could be sultry in a hard-boiled way but she was not overtly romantic. Emotional dependence did not become her." directed by her former manager Robbie Cavolina and Ian McCrudden is of a woman who always lived by her own rules. Her total disregard for convention applied as much to singing as to a spectacularly messy life that included several marriages drug arrests and a heroin addiction lasting more than 15 years." ” it is impossible to determine whether she is addressing life or death. What seems clear in the interview that makes up the spine of the movie is that near the end of her life the so-called Jezebel of Jazz who had been pronounced legally dead after a heroin overdose in the late 1960s had few regrets." she shrugs them off. Her 30-year partnership with John Poole her longtime drummer roommate and fellow drug addict who died in 1999 is given more attention in the film than any other relationship except the one with heroin. When one interviewer asks why she started using it she replies facetiously “Curiosity killed the cat ” then flashes a toothy smile. She describes how after an overdose she finally kicked the habit cold turkey on a beach in Hawaii." Mr. Cavolina and Mr. McCrudden; produced by Mr. Cavolina Melissa Davis and Mr. McCrudden; released by White Whale. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." enthralling film stitches pieces of interviews including the long one shortly before her death with excerpts from numerous performances at various phases of her career. It includes her famous turn wearing a wide-brimmed hat and swinging “Sweet Georgia Brown ” in Bert Stern’s documentary “Jazz on a Summer’s Day ” filmed at the 1958 Newport Jazz Festival. At the time she was at her commercial peak recording for Norman Granz’s Verve label and earning $2 500 a week most of it spent on drugs." Ms. O’Day had her first hit in 1941 with the joyfully swinging novelty “Let Me Off Uptown ” which featured a daring interracial voice-and-trumpet duet with Roy Eldridge. After spending five years with Krupa she worked for a year with Stan Kenton. Beginning in the late ’40s she sang mostly with small groups." ” she sounded as much like a reed instrument as a human being. One admiring talking head declares that Ms. O’Day could sing as fast as Oscar Peterson could play the piano. She ascribes her nearly vibrato-free sound to a botched tonsillectomy in which her uvula was accidentally removed. It is why she sang so many eighth notes instead of crooning she remarks." self-destructive human rhythm machine able to outlast almost all her peers? Maybe the vitality of the jazz she made kept her alive. She was one tough lady." who died two years ago at 87 invented a cool dry jazz singing style that influenced many most notably June Christy and Chris Connor. It was all about rhythm improvisation and hip attitude. What repeatedly comes to mind when people invoke Ms. O’Day is her feral instinctive drive for freedom both artistic and personal." 
6861
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15jack.html
high-value creature feature “Jack Brooks: Monster Slayer” harks back to the drive-in classics of yesteryear with unapologetic nostalgia and undisguised affection." Jack (Trevor Matthews) attends counseling to process his tragic past and night school to please his high-maintenance girlfriend (Rachel Skarsten). But when his science teacher (a hilarious Robert Englund) transforms into a cross between the centerpiece of “Slither” and Jabba the Hutt Jack becomes the only barrier to the thing’s decidedly nonvegan eating preferences. Like a blue-collar Indiana Jones Jack has discovered his destiny — and the unimagined utility of a well-stocked tool belt." Rachel Skarsten (Eve) Daniel Kash (Guidance Counselor) David Fox (Howard) and Robert Englund (Professor Crowley)." Jon Knautz directs with more love for physical comedy than for snappy one-liners. The movie’s real pleasures — aside from a cyclops that would not have shamed Ray Harryhausen  — owe less to latex than to the honed talents of veteran performers like Mr. Englund and David Fox whose too-brief appearance as a decrepit hardware-store clerk almost steals the movie." based on a story by Mr. Knautz Trevor Matthews Patrick White and Mr. Ainslie; director of photography Joshua Allen; edited by Matthew Brulotte;  music by Ryan Shore; production designer Jason MacIsaac; produced by Mr. White Mr. Matthews and Neil Bregman; released by Brookstreet Pictures and Anchor Bay Entertainment. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes." “Jack Brooks: Monster Slayer” is an object lesson in constructively channeled anger and the indispensability of duct tape. Home Depot should totally finance a sequel." gore and general grossness." 
6862
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15ande.html
Matt Walla Jesse Hagy John Paul Meyer and Christoph Faubert; edited by Eric Foster and Kate Johnson; produced by Mr. Kaplan and Mr. McDowell; released by Double M Productions Travis Productions and Circle Associates. At the Walter Reade Theater 165 West 65th Street Lincoln Center. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes. This film is not rated." Mr. McDowell breaks out an array of celebrity impressions including a splendidly confused John Gielgud during the filming of “Caligula.” (“Please tell me: are they pubescent or shaved?”) But the documentary’s strongest moments are also its most touching like Mr. Anderson’s poignant encounter with his idol John Ford and his powerful crush on Richard Harris the star of his first  feature “This Sporting Life.”" “Never Apologize” reveals its subject as a self-described dissident who valued risk and railed against the artistic timidity of his peers. Stamping his prickly personality and biting wit on film and correspondence alike he could turn a sly apology letter to the actor Alan Bates into an eloquent rant against conformity and weigh the respective virtues of Bette Davis and Lillian Gish with an insight few critics have matched." diaries and an unexpected gift for mimicry Malcolm McDowell is thoroughly engaging in “Never Apologize: A Personal Visit With Lindsay Anderson.”" and Mr. McDowell reads them with emotion but without sentimentality. In other words exactly as his friend would have wished." ” Mr. Anderson was a director who rarely pulled punches. The success of his 1969 Palme d’Or winner “If ...” — which elevated the English school picture to apocalyptic levels of bleakness — boosted Mr. McDowell as its rebellious star to international acclaim and the actor pays tribute here with gossipy fondness. He and Mr. Anderson (who died in 1994) made three subsequent films together but none would resonate as widely as that first collaboration a tale that in the director’s words “stuck a knife at the heart of the establishment” — arguably his  favorite diversion." 
6863
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15sing.html
Katrina Kaif (Sonia) Om Puri (Rangeela) and Sonu Sood (Lakhan Singh)." but as a disclaimer states “This is not a religious film.” It’s a Bollywood film and that means  visions of communal harmony untiring exuberance and of course song-and-dance numbers. One takes place amid Egyptian ruins with miniskirted dancers no less." featuring Snoop Dogg hanging out with Mr. Kumar and rapping (“Watch me zoom by make it boom by/Whaddup to all the ladies hanging out in  Mumbai”). Bollywood crossover dreams anybody?" the humor’s too broad the storytelling lackluster. But the immensely likable Mr. Kumar shines as a Capraesque hero who spreads bedrock Indian values — honor your mother help the poor — by example most conspicuously as the accidental leader of a feared crime gang in Australia." which bounces from Punjab to Egypt to Australia broke box-office records when it opened in India last week. Its appeal has everything to do with its star Akshay Kumar who plays Happy Singh a bumbling villager (“I’m an illiterate fool!” he says at one point) sent off into the world with nothing but his good intentions." with English subtitles) by Mr. Bazmee and Suresh Nair; directors of photography Ben Nott and Sanjay F. Gupta; edited by Amitabh Shukla; music by Prittam lyrics by Mayur Puri; produced by Vipul Shah; released by Adlabs. At the Imaginasian Theater 239 East 59th Street and AMC Empire 25 234 West 42nd Street Manhattan. Running time: 2 hours 15 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6864
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15pool.html
Radha Mitchell (Dawn Stupek) Adriana Barraza (Esperanza) George Lopez (Father Salazar) Cheryl Hines (Meg Wyatt) Rachel Seiferth (Patience) and Morgan Lily (Millie Stupek)." Eric Schmidt; edited by Lisa Churgin; music by John Frizzell; production designer Richard Hoover; produced by Tom Rosenberg Gary Lucchesi Richard Wright Gary Gilbert and Tom Lassally; released by Overture Films. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." a brooding American Everyman diagnosed with an unidentified terminal illness whose only visible symptoms are episodes of blotchy skin. Henry has returned to the Los Angeles neighborhood in which he grew up determined to die in slovenly solitude. While glumly waiting for the end he comforts himself with vodka and Krispy Kreme doughnuts." his pesky neighbors refuse to leave him alone. The most persistent is the garrulous Mexican-American widow who lives next door Esperanza (Adriana Barraza). She is the first to notice the stain which contains a spot from which a bloodlike substance slowly drips. Certain that she has seen the face of God she summons her pastor Father Salazar (George Lopez) to inspect it and as word gets around visitors begin arriving to worship at the supposedly holy site." Dawn and Patience that signal Deeper Meaning “Henry Poole Is Here” traffics in the kind of inspirational kitsch that only a true believer could swallow. Those convinced that faith can literally move mountains may welcome a film whose characters discuss spiritual issues although there are no grand tectonic shifts in the landscape. In the film directed by Mark Pellington (“Arlington Road”) from a screenplay by Albert Torres the miracles wrought by feeling a mystical connection with a mysterious reddish stain on the side of a stucco house are less earthshaking and have to do with physical and mental health." an  8-year-old neighbor who hasn’t said a word since the breakup of her parents’ marriage is also mysteriously drawn to the stain and miraculously begins talking again. Her beautiful cookie-baking mother Dawn (Radha Mitchell) just happens to be a perfect mate for Henry should he be roused from his morbid funk." Mr. Wilson offers a credible portrait of an angry despairing man fending off a cult. But the film’s spiritual deck is stacked. In the mawkish tradition of movies like “Simon Birch ” “Wide Awake ” “August Rush” and “Hearts in Atlantis ” “Henry Poole Is Here” is insufferable hokum that takes itself very very seriously." 
6865
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15moon.html
Kelly Ripa (Nat’s Mom) Nicollette Sheridan (Nadia) Tim Curry (Yegor) Trevor Gagnon (Nat) Philip Daniel Bolden (I.Q.) David Gore (Scooter) Ed Begley Jr. (Poopchev) Adrienne Barbeau (Scooter’s Mom) Robert Patrick (Louie) and Buzz Aldrin (Himself)." the film involves a threesome of Florida houseflies stowing away on Apollo 11. One of the most undermotivated plots in many a moon the zero-wit zero-gravity misadventures of Nat (the voice of Trevor Gagnon) I.Q. (Philip Daniel Bolden) and Scooter (David Gore) are embarked on merely because they’re bored on their garbage dump." based on a story by Gina Gallo and Mr. Paris; animation supervisor Philippe Taillez; music by Ramin Djawadi; art director Jérémie Degruson; produced by Charlotte Huggins Caroline Van Iseghem Gina Gallo and Mimi Maynard; released by Summit Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is rated G." me too!" too bad it wasn’t created expressly for you know pleasure or art." this one goes well enough: the 3-D effects are sophisticated and incorporated into the overall design of the picture rather than trumpeted by random poke-in-the-eye flourishes although the movie does have an annoying habit of sneezing and burping in your face." 
6866
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15clon.html
Steven Melching and Scott Murphy; animation directors Jesse Yeh and Kevin Jong; edited by Jason W. A. Tucker; music by Kevin Kiner with original “Star Wars” themes and scores by John Williams; produced by Catherine Winder; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." Dave Filoni has cited “Thunderbirds ” the 1960s British animation series with marionettes as an inspiration for the uh wooden style of his picture but the stiff self-important characterizations; corny space-war talk; and overheated militarism kept reminding me of “Team America: World Police.”" the plot concerns the efforts of Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano his neophyte sidekick to secure a fragile alliance by retrieving Jabba the Hutt’s baby son from the double-crossing clutches of Count Dooku blah blah blah. Exploding robots!" a feature-length digital animation called “Star Wars: The Clone Wars ” comes as something of a surprise: it isn’t the most painful movie of the year!" this new “Star Wars” saga (II.5?) completes the franchise’s divorce from photography-based cinema as well as from any relationship to credible human feeling." however “The Clone Wars” has an uncluttered look and furious pace that make it more or less as satisfying as its wildly overdesigned predecessors although it’s neither as agile nor as well made as the terrific series of short traditionally animated “Clone Wars” installments shown on the Cartoon Network from 2003 to 2005." Ashley Eckstein (Ahsoka Tano) James Arnold Taylor (Obi-Wan Kenobi) Dee Bradley Baker (Captain Rex/Clone Troopers) Tom Kane (Yoda) Nika Futterman (Asajj Ventress) Ian Abercrombie (Chancellor Palpatine) Coey Burton (Ziro the Hutt) Catherine Taber (Padme Amidala) Anthony Daniels (C-3PO) Christopher Lee (Count Dooku) and Samuel L. Jackson (Mace Windu)." 
6867
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/15/movies/15cat.html
lynchings Biblical tableaus naked women dissolute men. Continuing at a prodigious pace Mr. Wagner who died in 2006 set aside his vices and amassed a houseful of raw startling images as well as a growing reputation as an important folk artist." “One Bad Cat” brings fresh light to the artist profile not only through his choice of subject but also by his direct confrontation with the discomforting nature of Mr. Wagner’s work and the cultural complexities entailed when a poor black naïf is celebrated and collected by well-to-do whites." Shana Hagan; edited by Lillian E. Benson Mr. Miller Ms. Stiff and Paul Wiesepape; music by Miriam Cutler; produced by Mr. Miller and Nancy Dickenson; released by Tesseract Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. This film is not rated." Albert Wagner led an unexceptional if rather disreputable existence. He put together a living in a working-class neighborhood of Cleveland drank to excess and womanized with abandon siring 16 children with his wife and several more with two mistresses." spent five days in jail and as he tells it in “One Bad Cat: The Reverend Albert Wagner Story ” found himself in his basement one night contemplating the course of his life — and a paint stain on a scrap of wood." 
6868
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/14/movies/14roma.html
when Celadon agrees to disguise himself as a woman so he can approach Astrea without her knowing his true identity. That she can’t keep her paws off the cross-dressed Celadon is proof of the fusion-of-two-souls theory which Mr. Rohmer now 88 seems  to espouse heartily." a twittery buffoonish sensualist and advocate of promiscuity the truth-telling realist? Not in this movie in which he appears as a ridiculous clown surrounded by simpering groupies." shepherds and druids who frolic through Eric Rohmer’s pastoral fantasy “The Romance of Astrea and Celadon” (“Les Amours d’Astrée et de Céladon”) occupy mythological space somewhere between Shakespeare’s comedies and Greek mythology." Astrea assumes he is dead blames herself and sinks into despair. Celadon is encouraged by a wise older druid to reveal himself to Astrea but he feels he must obey her dictum to remain out of her sight forever. Such are the inviolable rules of courtly love." the idyllic passion of Astrea (Stéphanie Crayencour) a beautiful shepherdess and Celadon (Andy Gillet) an androgynously handsome shepherd shatters after each observes the other apparently flirting with someone else. It is all a misunderstanding. But when Astrea refuses to believe Celadon’s protestations of innocence he tries to drown himself in a river. He is saved and secretly nursed back to health by a group of possessive nymphs." and its view of love is the far-sighted perspective of a die-hard moralist gazing at the foolish world from an Olympian altitude or perhaps from another planet." based on a novel by  Honoré d’Urfé written in the 17th century and set in fifth-century Gaul is staged as an outdoor pageant in the attractive French countryside. An unseen narrator pushes the story along. In this bucolic never-never land the actors engage in stress-free agricultural pursuits and spend much of their time debating philosophies of love." or that they have the outsize personalities and drives of ancient deities. They’re more like pretty children playing woodland games of hide-and-seek while in the throes of extreme puppy love." with English subtitles) by Mr. Rohmer based on the novel “L’Astrée” by Honoré d’Urfé; director of photography Diane Baratier; edited by Mary Stephen; music by Jean-Louis Valéro; production designers Marie Dos Santos and Jérôme Pouvaret; produced by Philippe Liégeois and Jean-Michel Rey; released by Koch Lorber. At  Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes. This film is not rated." dreamy fable and Mr. Rohmer’s refined contemporary examinations of young love in “Six Moral Tales” are obvious the characters in “The Romance of Astrea and Celadon ” pretty as they are are historical phantoms with little flesh-and-blood substance. There are hugs and kisses galore but little actual desire." Stéphanie Crayencour (Astrea) Cécile Cassel (Léonide) Véronique Reymond (Galathée) Rosette (Sylvie) Rodolphe Pauly (Hylas) and Jocelyn Quivrin (Lycidas)." 
6869
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/13/movies/13trop.html
whose most triumphant excursion into comedy’s dark places remains “The Cable Guy ” a scabrous much-maligned 1996 riff on mass culture with Jim Carrey at his creepy greatest. “Tropic Thunder” is far slicker than “The Cable Guy” and given the new film’s obviously lavish budget (the aerial shots alone could bankroll the next Sundance slate) understandably more eager to please." involving Kirk’s explanation for why Tugg’s performance as a retarded man in “Simple Jack” doomed his chances for an Oscar an elucidation that includes a clever taxonomy of all the ways it’s permissible to play intellectually challenged in Hollywood (“Forrest Gump” is statuette-worthy though not “I Am Sam”) and a grindingly unfunny repetition of the word retard. If Mr. Downey — who at this point in his career apparently can do no wrong even in blackface — can’t make this bit work it’s because the bit is unworkable. The pomposity of the Oscars is the hook but it’s the word retard  that provides the squirm." ” including its use of blackface which along with the promiscuous deployment of the word retard has earned it much of its advance publicity. Though Mr. Downey’s character who has undergone a skin-darkening procedure to play his part has been cut from moldy Fred Williamson cloth he’s also the most recognizably human character in a lampoon rife with caricatures. One of those is played by an actual black man Brandon T. Jackson as Alpa Chino a rap entrepreneur who peddles an energy drink called Booty Sweat and is mainly around to mock Kirk’s impersonation which is the filmmakers’ way of having their chocolate cake and eating it too." at least initially Tugg Speedman the preening hard-bodied soft-minded action star Mr. Stiller plays with such intimate knowing in “Tropic Thunder.” A blockbuster sensation who has maxed out the audience’s love with too many sequels and one misbegotten attempt to bait Oscar with a weepie called “Simple Jack ” in which he played a bucktoothed  retarded man Tugg is hoping to resuscitate his career by going gung-ho and grunt in a Vietnam War movie also called “Tropic Thunder.” With his co-stars — notably Robert Downey Jr. as Kirk Lazarus an awards-laden Australian and Jack Black as Jeff Portnoy a comic partial to fat suits and flatulence — Tugg is headed yup into the heartless darkness." the biggest target of ridicule in “Tropic Thunder ” a flashy nasty on-and-off funny and assaultive sendup of the film industry is not the mentally retarded. Rather the true targets of this extreme comedy’s free-flowing contempt are the stars makers brokers miscellaneous supplicants and even die-hard fans of the movies who are all portrayed as challenged in some fashion: intellectually ethically aesthetically sartorially chemically longitudinally you name it." which he tries to do by giving it Bruckheimer-size pyrotechnics (the lead actors go AWOL in the jungle) and crude laughs wrung from a host of human frailties. But ever the maximalist he doesn’t just slice and dice his characters and their weaknesses; he tears them limb from limb blowing both to smithereens." the producer of the movie-within-a-movie who’s played by an almost unrecognizable Tom Cruise under a thick scum of makeup and latex. Heavily and heavy-handedly coded as Jewish the character is murderous repellent and fascinating a grotesque from his swollen fingers to the heavy gold dollar sign nestled on his yeti-furred chest.  At one time Mr. Stiller wanted to adapt Budd Schulberg’s brutal satire about a Hollywood hustler “What Makes Sammy Run? ” to the screen a long dormant and now perhaps lost project that haunts this otherwise safe film like a wrathful ghost." especially during the hyperviolent opening movie-set war scene in which body parts go flying and one actor-soldier attempts to keep his innards from spilling out of his stomach wound. Though this bit is played for obvious laughs and is intentionally phony-looking (the soldier looks as if he had been hit with a big pot of cassoulet rather than mortar) the scene skews more yucky than yukky because Mr. Stiller has so little sense of modulation. He isn’t content simply to decapitate a character the way say Graham Chapman hacked limbs in “Monty Python and the Holy Grail”; he also has to play with the stringy bits hanging from the bloodied neck. Mr. Stiller doesn’t kill jokes: he stomps them to death." Ben Stiller a professional offender and sometimes very funny man who also shares the movie’s writing credits with Etan Cohen and the actor Justin Theroux (missing in on-screen action here). Over the past decade or so Mr. Stiller has carved out a lucrative niche in the comedy of humiliation his and everyone else’s. Though this is familiar comic turf (the joke has to be on somebody) he has made it a particular specialty by playing variations on the emasculated patsy — the guy with the penis literally stuck in his zipper in “There’s Something About Mary” and figuratively caught in other roles — who either triumphs over adversity or violently succumbs to it." 
6870
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/08/movies/08eleg.html
but perversely enthralling because Mr. Roth’s prose is. Kepesh detests his decaying (dying) body and worships Consuela’s ripe (blooming) one. In the film directed by Isabel Coixet and written by Nicholas Meyer (he adapted Mr. Roth’s “Human Stain” to the screen) Kepesh is cool and watchful and Mr. Kingsley plays him without a trace of plausible weakness. With his flat stomach and beaky profile (he’s more eagle than goat) Mr. Kingsley looks too proud to indulge in the humiliating revelations that in the novel Kepesh ritualistically bathes in. The actor and the filmmakers have made the character their own but their portrait of a lonely man incapable of surrendering to love is familiar and banal." particularly when a film announces its literary pedigree as this one reasonably does. The trick is not to confuse the two or assume that the best adaptation is the most faithful or makes for good cinema. “Elegy” has the veneer of fealty. It shares some of the book’s dialogue most of its plot points and characters: a bold Patricia Clarkson plays Kepesh’s other lover Peter Sarsgaard his unhappy son and Dennis Hopper his only friend. The film also dilutes  the novel’s pessimism its smog of self-contempt and more aggressively ugly deeds and words — no one could mistake the onscreen Kepesh for a misogynist — but dilution bowdlerization counter-readings and heresy are legitimate strategies in the adaptation racket. Dullness isn’t." oftentimes grave exploration of desire and the ways of aging and desperate flesh that it’s a miracle the two central characters — a literary star named David Kepesh and his much younger lover Consuela — have as much sex as they do. Despite some  low-key lovemaking and the considerably more overwrought talk there’s very little pleasure to be found amid this film’s penumbral lighting careful compositions and muffled muffling good taste. There isn’t much juice here either though the film is based on “The Dying Animal ” a brutal short novel by Philip Roth that oozes like a wound." based on the novel “The Dying Animal” by Philip Roth; director of photography Jean-Claude Larrieu; edited by Amy Duddleston; production designer Claude Paré; produced by Tom Rosenberg Gary Lucchesi and Andre Lamal; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." more admirable than likable a fusion of early Roth (sex) and late Roth (death). It’s narrated by Kepesh (Ben Kingsley in the film) who in 1972 metamorphosed into the title character of “The Breast” and five years later became Mr. Roth’s eponymous “Professor of Desire.” The Kepesh in “The Dying Animal” is 70 and engorged with rage. His fury and vigorous language belie the aging flesh he bitterly complains about as he recalls his obsessive affair with Consuela (Penélope Cruz an obvious if remote object of desire) eight years earlier. She was his student and ripe for the plucking especially in the film where she enters clutching Roland Barthes’s “Pleasure of the Text” to her lush bosom." claustrophobic insistently impolite novel but this wouldn’t be such an issue if Ms. Coixet had the cinematic language that could withstand equal obliterate or transcend the book’s blunt force its beautiful sentences flashes of genius and spleen. Ms. Coixet has a fine eye and she has created a visual scheme — an attractively dark palette discreetly hovering camera movements and smooth edits — that makes everything look very nice indeed (especially the radiant if miscast Ms. Cruz). There’s not a hair out of place here or an emotion. It’s as if Ms. Coixet had tried to quiet the howls of a dying animal." Ben Kingsley (David Kepesh) Dennis Hopper (George O’Hearn) Patricia Clarkson (Carolyn) Peter Sarsgaard (Dr. Kenny Kepesh) and Deborah Harry (Amy O’Hearn)." which is largely inhospitable to tough prickly and unappetizing ideas and characters especially in America. It seems instructive that no great director has tackled this great writer whether out of fear or shrewdness. Certainly it’s understandable that a female filmmaker would have a go at Mr. Roth though “The Dying Animal ” with its unloving encounters maddening woman troubles and occasional gynecological descriptions really cries out for a reckless voluptuary like Catherine Breillat who wouldn’t go all soft. She could smack all that male contempt around but also give it its honest due. She would keep the novel’s furious bite." 
6871
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/08/movies/08spir.html
” Jerry Meyers 70 deadpans as he trains for his fifth race and the first with his daughter Rona. But whether doing it for shirts or for charity for meditation or competition (or like one first-timer as a particularly brutal form of post-divorce therapy) all are convinced that pounding pavement is the ultimate drug." the movie shadows six competitors — including the 2004 Olympic bronze medalist Deena Kastor — as they prepare for the 2005 Chicago Marathon." ” says the indefatigable Mr. Meyers looking fresher at the finish than many of his juniors. Now that’s a sentiment I understand." Mr. Dunham and Sarah Levy; edited by Christo Brock; music by Jeff Beal; produced by Mr. Dunham and Gwendolen Twist; released by Land of the Gods. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes. This film is not rated." “Spirit of the Marathon” makes you feel like a slug. One after another cheeks flushed and eyes aglow dedicated runners explain how marathons changed their lives and made them better people. Disagree if you dare." dousing the movie’s evangelical fervor — and entertaining the unconverted — with a smattering of injuries and performance anxieties. Experts chime in with amusing legends (like attributing the early ban on women to fears that the uterus might fall out) but the movie’s main focus is the high itself." 
6872
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/08/movies/08secr.html
beat up and heat up." ” asserts Darby Crash (played by Shane West) the punk-rock flameout and frontman of the Germs near the beginning of Rodger Grossman’s adoring biopic “What We Do Is Secret.”" exposing an intellect wholly focused on premeditated extinction. His Crash is tormented proof that sustaining a career is a lot tougher than bailing on one." however was posthumous adulation and Mr. Grossman does his best to oblige. Focusing on the five years between the singer’s banishment from high school and his heroin-assisted suicide in 1980 the filmmaker sketches a virtually parentless Nietzsche-reading teenager who forms a band out of boredom and a desire for attention. With fraudulently acquired instruments and a complete lack of musical ability the Germs would trash Los Angeles stages and endure heckling by other bands before recognizable chords would enter their repertory." “What We Do Is Secret” reveals its hero as a disaffected egotist and a magnet for needy weirdoes. Structured around imagined interviews with band members and hangers-on the movie offers too little of Crash’s justly revered lyricism and too much of his self-mutilation and manufactured chaos." Bijou Phillips (Lorna Doom) Rick Gonzalez (Pat Smear) and Noah Segan (Don Bolles)." Andrew Huebscher; edited by Ross Albert and Joel Platch; music by Anna Waronker; production designer John R. Mott; produced by Matt Perniciaro Kevin Mann Mr. Grossman Todd Traina and Stephen Nemeth; released by Peace Arch Entertainment and Vitagraph Films. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." 
6873
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/08/movies/08post.html
Ms. Okimoto remembers life before during and after the humiliation of Poston. This maddening memoir deftly told over a brisk hour makes for a touching primer on the subject and is better suited to a small-screen context — television classrooms — than to a movie theater." it also resonates with more current conflicts. “We’re setting a standard for the rest of the world for people who may have loyalties to an enemy nation ” says a 1940s propaganda film in defense of the internment camps sounding an awful lot like speeches from  the contemporary war on terrorism. “We are protecting ourselves without violating the principles of Christian decency. We won’t change this fundamental decency no matter what our enemies do.”" Mr. Nubile; edited by Mr. Nubile and Kerman Chowna; music by Andrew Rathbun; released by Fly on the Wall Productions. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour. This film is not rated." who as a girl found herself and her family displaced from their assimilated suburban existence to the Poston Relocation Center a dusty wasteland on the site of a former Indian reservation in the Arizona desert." 
6874
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/08/movies/08ride.html
” Larry Bishop — writer director producer and actor (he plays Pistolero) — kicked around B-movies in the 1960s and ’70s making his mark as an actor in biker pictures which he obviously loves. But he burdens his film with clumsy art-house ambitions that clash with its embrace of bikes beer and booty. If any of this sounds amusing be warned: it’s not. It’s depressingly self-conscious and turgid and a cast that includes Dennis Hopper David Carradine Michael Madsen and Eric Balfour can’t drag “Hell Ride” out of the mire." Scott Kevan ; edited by Blake West and William Yeh; music by Daniele Luppi; production designer Tim Grimes; produced by Mr. Bishop Michael Steinberg and Shana Stein; released by Third Rail Releasing. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes." Eric Balfour (Comanche) David Carradine (the Deuce) Dennis Hopper (Eddie Zero) Vinnie Jones (Billy Wings) and Michael Madsen (the Gent)." “Hell Ride” borrows its jump-around-in-time structure and absurdist wordplay from Quentin Tarantino (who apparently doesn’t hold a grudge; he’s credited as executive producer) and its sense of empty spaces and hovering doom from Sergio Leone. All that’s missing is those directors’ talent." ” a silly slice of genre gone bad takes place in an American desert populated by middle-aged bikers and the nubile often topless young women who love them. The guys who have names like Pistolero and the Gent (he wears a tuxedo see) ride around brawling and posturing and pretending they’re in better movies." profanity and only-in-Pistolero’s-dreams sexual situations." 
6875
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/08/movies/08red.html
Michael McCormack (Tom Sizemore) to whom Avery tells his story. In front of Avery McCormack summons Danny and his younger brother Harold (Kyle Gallner) who was another of the three for questioning. When they lie their father declares with a smirk that he believes their story and dismisses Avery. Avery calls on the third boy’s parents (Robert Englund and Amanda Plummer) who are hostile and secretive. His attempts to seek justice from the law are met with evasion and disinterest." Kim Dickens (Carrie Donnel) Robert Englund (Mr. Doust) Amanda Plummer (Mrs. Doust) Tom Sizemore (Michael McCormack) Noel Fisher (Danny) Kyle Gallner (Harold) and Richard Riehle (Sam)." “Red” is certainly a throwback though not to the 1950s; instead it recalls the 1970s and the vigilante movies of Charles Bronson and the vengeful bloodbaths of Sam Peckinpah. Directed by Trygve Allister Diesen and Lucky McKee from Stephen Susco’s adaptation of a novel by Jack Ketchum it imagines a world in which good and evil are clear-cut and absolute justice is worth pursuing despite heavy collateral damage." the allegory loses its moral force and changes from a meditation on justice power and inequality into a gory melodrama." while Avery is relaxing in his favorite riverside fishing spot his idyll is interrupted by three teenage boys claiming to be deer hunters who appear behind him out of the woods. After some vaguely ominous small talk the boys’ 18-year-old leader Danny (Noel Fisher) aims his shotgun at Avery and demands money. When Avery comes up short Danny for sheer malicious sport turns his gun on Red and shoots him in the head then bursts into derisive laughter." Avery Ludlow  (Brian Cox) is a kindly shopkeeper in rural Oregon. His beloved dog Red was a gift from his wife who died many years earlier. A popular neighborhood character who lives an extremely spartan existence Avery seems at peace in the world. And Mr. Cox in a gripping understated performance plays him as a man who after being mistreated comes to a slow boil without losing his composure." his trusty dog at his side: the tableau a throwback to Saturday Evening Post covers by Norman Rockwell could put a lump in your throat. When that image is first glimpsed near the beginning of “Red ” you expect the movie to be a bucolic tearjerker about an aging war hero and his memories the comfort of pets and the pleasures of the simple life." based on the novel by Jack Ketchum; director of photography Harald Gunnar Paalgard; edited by Jon Endre Mork; music by Soren Hyldgaard with songs by the Green Car Motel; produced by Mr. Diesen and Norman M. Dreyfuss; released by Magnolia Pictures. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." in the movie’s first wrong turn Avery is persuaded to tell his story on a local television station. We don’t see the broadcast but it gains him a friendship with a sympathetic reporter Carrie Donnel (Kim Dickens). It also earns him a rock tossed through his living room window with a threatening note attached. Avery begins following Danny in his pickup and observes him and his friends from afar. Finally confronting Danny Avery uses measured words to incite a physical attack against himself that is witnessed by townspeople. The violence quickly snowballs." 
6876
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/08/movies/08paul.html
low-fi appeal to the results despite some fairly obnoxious behavior (“Capitalism at its best ” says Charlie of the Vietnamese nightlife “booze and chicks!”) and an overall sense that the movie was infinitely more fun to make than it is to watch." in a thermos are the ashes of a recently departed buddy spoonfuls of which are scattered — along with chipper bromides about the joys of travel — from the cricket fields of Jamaica to the mountaintops of Chile from the Acropolis to Tokyo on and on with much misadventure until they reach their destination one of the famous full-moon parties in Thailand." the movie was shot guerrilla-style by a crew of exactly two. Recruiting supporting characters along the way and improvising dialogue on the fly Mr. Mandt and Mr. Carter have essentially and resourcefully fictionalized their own home movie." Marc Carter; edited by Stephen Butler Nick Scown and Eric Wing; produced by Neil Mandt and Michael Mandt; released by Mandt Brothers Productions. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes." Charlie (Neil Mandt) and Cliff (Marc Carter) as they gallivant around the globe in search of adventure romance and an antidote to their soul-sucking day jobs selling disposable toilet seat covers from cubicles in Los Angeles." Marc Carter (Cliff) Greg Poppen (Will) Eric Wing (Craig) Heather Petrone (Amy) and Ron Carlson (Art)." 
6877
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/08/movies/08lose.html
Tobin Yelland; edited by Lenny Mesina; music by Money Mark; produced by Rick Lim Jon Barlow Chris Green and Noah Khoshbin; released by Sidetrack Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." this scrappy Lower East Side hot spot made its name with a stable of underground artists who came up from the graffiti punk and skateboard subcultures to forge a savvy if superficial post-Pop style quickly co-opted by corporate marketing." he can’t much expect us to care about so fawning and self-serving a document." who directed the movie with Joshua Leonard spends a lot of time in front of the camera remembering how “the kids” were all super awesome and super friendly and super like keeping it real back in the day. “Totally ” concur artists including Barry McGee Ed Templeton Mike Mills Thomas Campbell and Jo Jackson." 
6878
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/08/movies/08forg.html
they mostly stoop their spines bent by age and neglect stigmatized by a society that is failing on a spectacular scale to care for its elderly. There are some 20 million such women in India according to the movie." says the filmmaker Dilip Mehta by the success of “Water ” an Oscar-nominated drama directed by his sister Deepa Mehta about the marginalization of widows in India." Hindi and English with English subtitles) by Deepa Mehta; director of photography Dilip Mehta; produced by David Hamilton and Noemi Weis; released by Hamilton-Mehta Productions and Filmblanc. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." a seasoned photojournalist puts an unforgettable face on a problem of unimaginable scope. He has a terrific eye for colorful details — a monkey scrambling in the background of an interview golden sunlight dancing in a fountain — and an unfussy confidence in the ability of his camera to soak up the simple rich flavors of his subject without resorting to the picturesque or maudlin." and while it ought to be included on every future copy of the “Water” DVD his free-form portrait of real widows has more than enough visual beauty graceful compassion and understated anger to stand on its own." 
6879
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/06/movies/06patt.html
” an impressionistic portrait of that punk godhead but you learn just about everything you need. Created over a heroic 11 years it was directed and mostly shot by Steven Sebring a high-end commercial photographer whose perseverance and conspicuous unfamiliarity with or disregard for the conventions of nonfiction cinema (not to mention the apparently deep-enough pockets that freed him to follow his own muse) have inspired a lovely drifty first feature that feels less like a documentary and more like an act of rapturous devotion." Phillip Hunt and Mr. Sebring; edited by Angelo Corrao and Lin Polito; produced by Mr. Sebring Margaret Smilow and Scott Vogel; released by Palm Pictures. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes. This film is not rated." such devotion is easy. Ms. Smith was born (in 1946) wrote poetry made rock ’n’ roll history changed the world part of it anyway.  “Dream of Life” tells some of that story intimately and yet at arm’s length. If you want to know about punk what it was like to play CBGB when it mattered (or on its final night as Ms. Smith did in 2006) look elsewhere. The same goes if you want to know what it was like to be on top of the world and on top of the charts to watch Robert Mapplethorpe get his nipple pierced sit at the feet of William S. Burroughs and shack up with Sam Shepard at the Chelsea Hotel." Mr. Sebring creates a structure for the film in which past and present seem to flow effortlessly and ceaselessly into each other. The little girl hovering next to Ms. Smith backstage becomes the young woman visiting John Lennon’s Central Park memorial with her mother. And so it goes elegantly. The film’s central image one Mr. Sebring returns to again and again is of Ms. Smith in a softly lighted room filled with photos mementos and miscellaneous bits and pieces a room that’s as much a manifestation of memory as a physical space. Here in this refuge Patti Smith coos to her cat and flirts with Mr. Shepard who drops by for a duet and briefly stops time." who had met her that same year during a magazine photo shoot started to tag along. He continued to do so over the next decade shooting her performing on and off the stage (she never seems to turn off though she does put her hand over the camera lens)  in color and high- sometimes low-contrast black-and-white 16-millimeter film." watched as she did a rubbing of Gregory Corso’s gravestone in Italy visited  Rimbaud’s birthplace in France with a tattered copy of “A Season in Hell” and strolled through Jerusalem. A patient observer Mr. Sebring kept shooting as she kept roaming memorializing and living." it is a song of life — by turns joyous and elegiac warm and vibrantly present a mosaic of moods and moments from one woman’s richly lived time on earth. Against the odds and punk’s dumber tendencies Ms. Smith didn’t die young or succumb to the usual rock clichés. She did fade away though intentionally: in 1979 she dissolved her band the Patti Smith Group leaving New York and her escalating fame behind for an apparently contented life as a suburban Detroit housewife tucking into domesticity with her husband the guitarist Fred Smith and their children Jackson (a son) and Jesse (a daughter). Then in 1994 Mr. Smith died of heart failure.  The next month her only brother Todd died too." the year Ms. Smith left South New Jersey  for New York. She shares tantalizingly  little about her unformed and formative years in the film which opens with the image of galloping horses horses horses horses and her speaking in present-day voice-over narrating in that inimitable flat accent (“leanin’ on the paakin’ meter ” as she sings in “Gloria”) swiftly tallying the ups and dreadful downs the births and deaths  that  had helped shape her until now. The film has barely begun before she’s offered forth a life’s worth of headline news a strategy that allows Mr. Sebring and Ms. Smith who is as much a collaborator as a subject to fill the next 100 or so minutes with fragmented beauty and song." lean face is framed by two braids you can imagine her leading a wagon train west or standing solitary guard on the prairie — and her vibe is similarly tempered and temperate. Yet while she seems very much at peace with herself and with her ghosts she still burns white hot onstage thrashing and raging (against George W. Bush against the Iraq war) with the same propulsive energy and purpose that first drove this one-time poet to turn up the volume alongside the guitarist Lenny Kaye.  (He’s still around too.) For her  rock ’n’ roll feels like a mission and the fountain of life." 
6880
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/06/movies/06pine.html
the plot is the least of it. Dale a process server who rattles around Los Angeles in his junker chronically tuning out while tuned in to talk radio needs to score and Saul is happy to oblige. Alas the primo marijuana Dale buys during the day — the Pineapple Express of the title — proves near-fatal that evening after he witnesses a murder and leaves a telltale roach behind at the scene. The killer Ted Jones (the comically reliable Gary Cole) and his policewoman partner (Rosie Perez unsmiling and unamusing) figure out the pot’s provenance and like a murderous Hansel and Gretel trace the smoldering breadcrumb back to Saul which is how the laidback dealer and his client end up fleeing for their lives." generous profanity and copious marijuana usage." James Franco (Saul) Gary Cole (Ted) Rosie Perez (Carol) and Danny McBride (Red)." based on a story by Judd Apatow Mr. Rogen and Mr. Goldberg; director of photography Tim Orr; edited by Craig Alpert; music by Graeme Revell; production designer Chris Spellman; produced by Mr. Apatow and Shauna Robertson; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes." after some humorously offbeat dithering with his co-star James Franco runs so hard with it that you can count the beads of sweat flying off his increasingly bunched forehead. That’s too bad because the dithering proves to be his finest hour and the movie’s best reason for being. It’s then that the director David Gordon Green a regional filmmaker who’s been making a beeline for the mainstream (from the lyrical “George Washington” to the melodramatic “Snow Angels”) hits a sweet sweet groove while Mr. Rogen’s pot patron Dale parties and yes of course bonds with Mr. Franco’s dingbat dealer Saul amid waves of playful nonsense some idle and sentimental chatter brutal and funny slapstick and a mushroom cloud of smoke." which plunges Dale and Saul into violence with a whole lot of bad dudes (including generic Asians in ninja suits) guns and explosions is startling crudely choreographed and just the kind of big finish a dead-ended writer or two might come up with while searching for a third act and lighting up to a Steven Seagal flick in the wee hours. That sounds better than it plays largely because Mr. Rogen who will soon be wearing a mask in a Green Hornet movie looks so earnest and unfunny when playing the hero. Mr. Franco happily keeps the stoner faith as does Danny McBride whose unfailingly polite drug dealer steals the show even as Dale and Saul of course of course fall in brotherly love." it’s all nice and easy and suitably mellow. Mr. Franco something of a James Dean look-alike who appeared with Mr. Rogen in the cult television show “Freaks and Geeks” (a launchpad for Mr. Apatow among others) has been best known for playing second fiddle to a superhero in the “Spider-Man” blockbusters. (Those sculptured cheekbones worked well for him in a cable biopic about Dean.) He’s delightful as Saul loosey-goosey and goofy yet irrepressibly sexy despite that greasy curtain of hair and a crash pad with a zero WAF (Woman Acceptance Factor). It’s an unshowy generous performance and it greatly humanizes a movie that as it shifts genre gears and cranks up the noise becomes disappointingly sober and self-serious." you probably have caught its multiple inspirations. It was written by Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg who turned their adolescent agonies into “Superbad ” a charming smutfest about three hormonally freaked-out teenage boys. The two screenwriters have become major since then in particular Mr. Rogen who also starred in Judd Apatow’s family-values comedy “Knocked Up” and has recently lent his voice to one too many children’s movies. In some respects “Pineapple Express” plays out like a louder nastier more violent and ostensibly adult follow-up to “Superbad ” except that Mr. Rogen who had a supporting part in the first film as a slacker cop has moved far enough up the studio food chain to now take a starring role." Abbott and Costello Hope and Crosby Ricky and Lucy Martin and Lewis Rowan and Martin Smothers and Smothers Sanford and son Spicoli and Hand Bert and Ernie Riggs and Murtaugh cops and robbers dumb and dumber right brain and left peanut butter and jelly bong hit roach clip and Snoop Doggy Dogg comes “Pineapple Express ” a stoner comedy that partakes of a gentle indie vibe before hitting the hard stuff for a major Shane Black-style blowup and meltdown." 
6881
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/06/movies/06pant.html
a lonely Yale student tags along after her friend Julia (Rachel Nichols) a drama major to a summer theater in Vermont where she does backstage work until she is pressured to audition for a production of  “The Winter’s Tale ” in which she is cast as Perdita. She has a crush on Ian (Tom Wisdom) a courtly handsome young British actor. Ms. Ferrera may be adorable in “Ugly Betty ” but her facility with Shakespeare is another matter." who is studying film at New York University  and working in a video store is thrown into a tailspin after sleeping with her boyfriend Brian (Leonardo Nam) and missing her period. Moody and wisecracking she has the most personality of the four. When a young couple visits the store looking for something romantic her boss overhears her sarcastically recommending “The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.”" treachery and revenge." but you have the sense that it would like to be." connecting the friends through the same pair of magical one-size-fits-all patched jeans that they pass around and that originally bound them. Each time the jeans change hands they confer blessings." based on the novels by Ann Brashares; director of photography Jim Denault; edited by Melissa Kent; music by Rachel Portman; production designer Gae Buckley; produced by Debra Martin Chase Denise Di Novi Broderick Johnson and Kira Davis; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 57 minutes." it doesn’t apply to their other friends and relatives. It falls to Ms. Nichols to play the movie’s designated blond baddie a cold arrogant vixen who tries to undermine Carmen’s triumphs in romance and onstage." adapted from Ann Brashares’s novels at a studious distance from brute reality. That’s because “Traveling Pants 2 ” directed by Sanaa Hamri from a screenplay by Elizabeth Chandler knows its target audience  —  tweens and up  —  and would rather stroke romantic fantasies than dash them. Observed through emotional gauze its four likable women are symbolic cheerleaders for personal loyalty and wholesome living. Their boyfriends are the stuff of girlish fantasy: tender unspoiled dreamboats with sculpted abs (over which the camera lingers) puppy dog eyes hearts of gold and well-scrubbed vocabularies." a modest 2005 hit are now college age. Individually and collectively they are still in high school." who has won a scholarship to Brown goes to Turkey for the summer on an archaeological dig and with the help of a wise earthy professor (Shohreh Aghdashloo) begins coming to terms with her mother’s suicide. She eventually  visits Alabama to reunite with her grandmother (Blythe Danner playing a salty Southern matron). Bridget is the only one of the four without a boyfriend." America Ferrera (Carmen) Blake Lively (Bridget) Alexis Bledel (Lena) Rachel Nichols (Julia) Rachel Ticotin (Carmen’s Mom) Shohreh Aghdashloo (Professor Nasrin Mehani) Leonardo Nam (Brian McBrian) Jesse Williams (Leo) Tom Wisdom (Ian) Michael Rady (Kostos)  and Blythe Danner (Greta)." the balance of celebrity power has shifted among the stars. In 2005  Ms. Tamblyn and Ms. Bledel were riding high from the series “Joan of Arcadia” and “Gilmore Girls.” Because of “Ugly Betty” and “Gossip Girl ” Ms. Ferrera and Ms. Lively have pulled ahead." recovering from  ruptured first love with her Greek sweetheart Kostos (Michael Rady) is studying drawing at the Rhode Island School of Design and has a romance with Leo (Jesse Williams) a handsome artist’s model and amateur chef." 
6882
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/06/movies/06bott.html
but “Bottle Shock” spends too much time cruising the sun-dappled California hills tripping over potentially engaging dramatic possibilities and leaving them in the dust. An incipient love triangle involving Bo Gustavo and Sam does not generate much intensity though we do learn that Gustavo is a winemaker of such skill that one sip of his best red will inspire a woman to jump into bed with him. (Bo in contrast must fall back on his raffish surfer charm.) Gustavo’s tense relationship with Jim raises a hint of class resentment and ethnic prejudice but this theme is no more  persuasively developed than the Oedipal conflict between Jim and Bo." Alan Rickman (Steven Spurrier) Chris Pine (Bo Barrett) Freddy Rodriguez (Gustavo Brambila) Rachael Taylor (Sam Clayton) Dennis Farina (Maurice Cantavale) Miguel Sandoval (Garcia) and Eliza Dushku (Joe)." an  expatriate from Milwaukee whose rough manner and garish clothes belie a sophisticated palate." and a lot of alcohol consumption." Spurrier makes his way to Napa where Jim Barrett (Bill Pullman) a lapsed lawyer from San Francisco fondles grapes quotes Hemingway and tries to transform his life of bourgeois normalcy into a  Steinbeck novel. A perfectionist and something of a blowhard Jim takes to the boxing ring to settle arguments with his long-haired son Bo (Chris Pine)." indeed at least two underdogs hungering for triumph. The first is Steven Spurrier played by Alan Rickman whose parched low voice and air of beleaguered pomposity are never unwelcome. Spurrier is a British wine dealer vainly seeking a way into the French oenological establishment. Well-trained and sensitive as his nose may be it’s  always pressed against the glass." along with his pal Gustavo (Freddy Rodriguez) who is one of Jim’s employees and Sam (Rachael Taylor) a head-turning new intern at the vineyard represents a new generation of irreverent countercultural wine connoisseur." and flops around between madcap comedy and rousing drama. To borrow a wine-snob term of art it lacks structure. Or to push the idiom a little further it’s a little too sweet with some pleasantly nutty notes and a baloney finish." Jody Savin and Ross Schwartz; director of photography Michael J. Ozier; music by Mark Adler; production designer Craig Stearns; produced by Mr. Miller Ms. Savin J. Todd Harris Brenda Lhormer and Marc Lhormer; released by Freestyle Releasing. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." at a gathering near Paris a panel of experts conducted a blind tasting at which two California wines emerged victorious over their more pedigreed French competitors. That tasting provides the climax to “Bottle Shock ” and even if the potential surprise of its outcome were not already spoiled by history the movie’s adherence to the clichés of the triumph-of-the-underdog narrative would be enough to remove any doubt." ” an easygoing little movie made with more affection than skill takes us back to the days when men wore loud plaid suits and people who were serious about wine sneered at the very mention of California. Sticking reasonably close to the historical record the director Randall Miller (who wrote the screenplay with his wife Jody Savin and Ross Schwartz) reconstructs a watershed moment in the wine world’s acceptance of the Golden State and eventually of many other non-French viticultural regions." 
6883
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/01/movies/01froz.html
Courtney Hunt’s somber film “Frozen River” evokes a perfect storm of present-day woes: illegal immigration ethnic tension depressed real estate high gas prices and dire poverty." it has no political axes to grind. It is more interested in exploring the reluctant bond that develops between Ray and Lila than in suggesting any root causes for their situations. When that bond is severely tested the movie refuses to sentimentalize it." a glum single mother with a reputation for smuggling illegal immigrants into the United States from Canada. They meet when Ray visits the bingo parlor looking for her husband and catches Lila stealing the car he left behind." in upstate New York  at the Canadian border is a gray wintry landscape of mud and slush dotted with trailers and discount stores. Although it is days before Christmas there is no joy here and as the movie goes along its chill begins to seep into your bones." Reed Morano; edited by Kate Williams; music by Peter Golub and Shahad Ismaily; production designer Inbal Weinberg; produced by Heather Rae and Chip Hourihan; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." gun-toting Québécois. He hands over illegal aliens from  China and Pakistan who hide in the trunk while Ray drives them over the ice to a remote motel on the other side of the border. At each stop cash is exchanged and haggled over." redheaded actress makes you believe in her character’s resilience.  As Ray is humiliated in a real estate office and hounded by creditors who threaten to repossess the big-screen television in her shabby living room you admire her fortitude; her anger never gets the better of her." who earns a meager wage working part time at the Yankee One Dollar Store is so destitute she can’t afford Christmas presents. The money her husband squandered was to be used for  the balloon payment on a new double-wide trailer.  Unless she comes up with the money by Christmas she will lose everything." not even the model of the car Ray drives (a Dodge  Spirit) and the supper Ray serves one night when she is out of cash: popcorn and Tang." ” it is almost the opposite of that. It is grim reality. But because Ray refuses to give up she lends the movie nobility. Ms. Leo’s magnificent portrayal of a woman of indomitable grit and not an iota of self-pity makes “Frozen River” a compelling study of individual courage." Misty Upham (Lila) Charlie McDermott (T. J.) James Reilly (Ricky) Mark Boone Junior (Jacque Bruno) Michael O’Keefe (Trooper Finnerty) Jay Klaitz (Guy Versailles) Bernie Littlewolf (John Canoe) Dylan Carusona (Jimmy) and Michael Sky (Billy Three Rivers)." Ray drives with one hand on the steering wheel and the other holding a gun. There is the added lurking fear that the ice may crack. Lila is as desperate as Ray. Her daughter was taken at birth from the hospital by Lila’s mother-in-law who refuses to hand over the child whom she wants to raise by herself." the hard-bitten mother of two sons 15-year-old T. J. (Charlie McDermott) and  5-year-old Ricky (James Reilly) gambled away the family’s meager savings before deserting them leaving no word." who offers to quit school and take a job. As the de facto head of the household while she is working he cooks up a telemarketing scam and almost burns down the trailer when he uses his father’s blowtorch to unfreeze the pipes." 
6884
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/01/movies/01sixt.html
Eddie Marsan (Manny Rubens) Gregg Sulkin (Bernie Rubens) Peter Serafinowicz (Jimmy Mr. Rubens Sr. World Cup commentator) Catherine Tate (Aunt Lila) and Ben Newton (Alvie Rubens)." philander and eat dinner in their underwear." ” sighs 12-year-old Bernie Rubens (Gregg Sulkin) a North London nebbish whose forthcoming bar mitzvah is his one opportunity to shine. But this is 1966 and Bernie’s elaborate plan for “the Jesus Christ of bar mitzvahs” is about to be overshadowed by one of the most ecstatic moments in Britain’s history: England’s unexpected triumph at the World Cup Final." “Sixty Six” is a dolorous comedy that leans heavily if inoffensively on ethnic stereotypes. Their emotions as sealed as their plastic-covered furniture Bernie’s brusque mother (Helena Bonham Carter) ulcer-plagued father (Eddie Marsan) and bullying older brother (Ben Newton) barely notice his asthmatic distress. And when the family store succumbs to one of those newfangled supermarkets Bernie finally accepts that inviting the Kray twins to act as bouncers at his party might have been overkill." based on a story by Mr. Weiland; director of photography Dan Landin; edited by Paul Tothill; music by Joby Talbot; production designer Michael Howells; produced by Tim Bevan Eric Fellner and Elizabeth Karlsen; released by First Independent Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." “Sixty Six” charts a sentimental struggle toward manhood with period-appropriate charm. Like Bernie’s reluctant guests however you may find yourself wishing for more of Wembley Stadium and less of the Rubenses’ living room. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS" 
6885
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/01/movies/01kiss.html
the couch his bed — out of his head and into the world —  which means it’s about growing up. That makes  it  a heroic voyage of sorts and also prosaic though mainly in a good way. Most of the movie’s low-key charm is in its close-to-the-ground verisimilitude evident both in the contours of its grungy urban locations and in Wilson’s struggle. He isn’t desperate just stuck. (Help is always a room or phone call away.) He simply needs to get going as does the movie itself and so after a little narrative dithering and an unfortunate sexual incident involving a computer he places an ad on Craigslist: “Misanthrope seeks misanthrope.”" you’re newly transplanted to Los Angeles and you want to be (poor soul) a screenwriter. For Wilson (a very fine Scoot McNairy) a scruffy depressive with spooked eyes whose longing pushes the story forward and a wee bit sideways no place is lonelier than home especially if it’s doing double duty as a  passion shack. From his corner of the cramped apartment that he shares with his longtime friend Jacob (Brian Matthew McGuire) and Jacob’s sexy underdressed girlfriend Min (Katy Luong) Wilson has been afforded an uncomfortably close view of other people’s happiness. It’s a pretty enough picture though not if you’re feeling as laid low by life as Wilson is." a star of Mr. Linklater’s “Sunrise”  films.) Even so while “In Search of a Midnight Kiss” has its derivative moments along with awkward patches — the inelegantly shaped climax tries to force uninteresting parallels between the two central couples — it manages the difficult task of creating a sustained plausible and inviting world. That part of this world has been formed by other movies is to be expected. Mr. Holdridge after all is a young filmmaker living and working in Los Angeles who much like Wilson is navigating one tough town." ” a woman answers." Vivian (Sara Simmonds) a little girl posing as a femme fatale. After meeting cute and somewhat cruel at a restaurant (he takes a number while she interviews another prospect) the two travel to downtown where amid crumbing buildings faded movie palaces and signs of new gentrifying life they walk and they talk sharing funny and forlorn stories histories and observations. Although the movie’s black-and-white digital photography is clearly meant to evoke both the melancholy and visual beauty of Woody Allen’s “Manhattan” — the allusion  just makes you yearn for that earlier film’s rich velvety celluloid texture — Wilson and Vivian’s stop-and-go peripatetic flirtation owes a stronger formal debt to Richard Linklater’s twinned walkabout romances “Before Sunrise” and “Before Sunset.”" ” a man asks." Robert Murphy; edited by Frank Reynolds and Jacob Vaughn; produced by Seth Caplan and Scoot McNairy ; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." the romantic comedy “In Search of a Midnight Kiss” treads familiar if appealing ground. Written and directed by Alex Holdridge and made with high hopes  and a conspicuously low budget this feature-length drift across the modern landscape of love and desire suggests that in the age of MySpace (not YourSpace or OurSpace) hooking up has become harder than ever an idea neatly encapsulated by one of the kickier first-date dialogues in recent movie memory:" Sara Simmonds (Vivian) Brian Matthew McGuire (Jacob) Katy Luong (Min) Bret Roberts (Buoy) Twink Caplan (Wilson’s Mom) and Nic Harcourt (Radio D.J.)." 
6886
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/01/movies/01beau.html
directionless and altogether pointless “America the Beautiful” will outrage only those who have spent the last 50 years in suspended animation. Paddling in the shallow end of a very deep pool the  writer and director  Darryl Roberts bumbles his way through a hodgepodge of impressions about our national quest for physical perfection before suggesting — wait for it — that real beauty is on the inside. I feel enlightened already." this fabulously inept documentary aims much of its ire at the beauty industry’s purported tyranny of impressionable young women. Ignoring writers who have spent their careers studying this issue (including Jean Kilbourne and her pioneering video series “Killing Us Softly”) Mr. Roberts conducts embarrassingly naïve  and occasionally creepy  interviews with young girls concerned about their body image. Though what we can learn from a close-up of a 12-year-old model’s naked thigh is not precisely clear." Mr. Roberts zigzags from eating disorders to music videos to Eve Ensler chatting about — what else? — designer vaginas without drawing breath or conclusions. If he had he might have noticed that the tragic story of that 12-year-old model offered all the material his movie needed." produced and directed by Darryl Roberts; edited by Kurt Engfehr; released by First Independent Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." fantasy and four-letter words." 
6887
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/01/movies/01swin.html
of course just one of those good-time guys who has reached a dead end after too many wrong turns. He and Molly live alone in a tumbledown trailer (the girl’s mother went AWOL long ago) with stained walls and no telephone or hot water. He barely makes it to  his factory job and when he gets there you understand why. With his friends Walter (Judge Reinhold) and Lewis (Charles Esten) he packs chicken eggs in a swirl of feathers. It’s a living if not anything like the high-flying kind that often shows up in modern Hollywood where leading men tend to play cops and robbers or white-collar variations on doctor lawyer and corporate chief. Factories belong in other countries (China) other movies (documentaries) too." Shane Hurlbut; edited by Jeff McEvoy; music by John Debney; production designer Steve Saklad; produced by Jim Wilson and Kevin Costner; released by Touchstone Pictures. Running time: 2 hours." from light laughs to dark thoughts — an emotionally brutal scene with a fantastic Mare Winningham as Molly’s mother nearly tears a hole in the film  — “Swing Vote” becomes less cohesive and more interesting than it was when Bud crawled out of his first hangover. Unlike classic Capra heroes those readymade saviors of the people Bud has been gripped by indifference for far too long to take much notice of anyone beyond his daughter and a few friends. Though the intrusive wall-to-wall music tries to lighten (and direct) the mood at every interval melancholy clings to this film. Mr. Costner who eases into his role gracefully isn’t playing the hero just a guy who has to save himself." liberty and the pursuit of Budweiser among other noble and base causes “Swing Vote” is also one of the most surprising politically suggestive movies to come out of Hollywood this year. Topped by a gruffly appealing Kevin Costner as a good ole drunk whose vote will decide the American presidency it takes place in the kind of New Mexico town that might once have been thought of as Capraesque but in depressed spirit and hard-times  veneer comes across like a Dust Bowl Hooverville. The film has a Red State setup —  the Nascar champ Richard Petty zooms by  —  and a serious case of the blues." “Swing Vote” couldn’t be louder even if it can be difficult at first to know which message it wants to send. Molly a walking talking megaphone delivers a speech during a class presentation — a left-leaning  warning about voter complacency leading to enslavement  —  that  attracts the notice of a local television reporter Kate Madison (Paula Patton) a looker with major-network dreams. Her boss played by George Lopez at full volume can’t wait to escape either which broadcasts another message. Namely that the small town as it was idealized by Hollywood is no longer just a potential trap the way it seems to James Stewart in Capra’s “It’s a Wonderful Life.” It’s a dying and dead  zone." it isn’t. But neither is “Swing Vote ” despite Bud’s crinkly grin some slapstick a few comic faces (Nathan Lane’s included) and a handful of belly laughs the biggest of which skewer anti-abortion and anti-immigration rhetoric. This being Hollywoodland the movie refuses to take sides  — actually it takes them it just doesn’t admit that it does. There’s no doubt who’s right and who’s not. The candidates aren’t party ideologues though; they’re decent men led astray by fear and ambition. Bud himself has been sidelined by drink apathy and bad luck but also by forces beyond his control and the movie doesn’t pin his woes exclusively on him. His American dream was as much stolen as squandered." having promised Molly he would vote in the presidential election ends up zonked out in his truck. One thing leads to another flatly outlandish thing and before you can grumble high-concept hooey both the conservative presidential incumbent Andrew Boone (Kelsey Grammer all smiles) and his liberal opponent Donald Greenleaf (a tamped-down Dennis Hopper) have descended on Bud’s town. Accompanied by the usual fast-talking handlers stone-faced Secret Service men news twerps and gadflies the candidates take sneaky then obvious turns pulling Bud this way and that  —  his choices come down to either nuclear annihilation or the rainbow White House  — until they themselves have been bent so far out of shape so contorted by politicking that they’re almost unrecognizable." Madeline Carroll (Molly Johnson) Paula Patton (Kate Madison) Kelsey Grammer (President Andrew Boone) Dennis Hopper (Donald Greenleaf) Nathan Lane (Art Crumb) Stanley Tucci (Martin Fox) George Lopez (John Sweeney) Judge Reinhold (Walter) Charles Esten (Lewis) Mare Winningham (Larissa Johnson) Richard Petty (Himself) and Willie Nelson (Himself)." as the plump public in “Wall-E” and some Gotham citizens in “The Dark Knight” in turn discover. Though Bud’s initial indifference brings to mind those two films and their suddenly awakened populations “Swing Vote” is a mainstream eager-to-please relatively generic endeavor not an auteurist showcase. Mr. Stern does nice work with the actors even the weak ones. But it’s difficult to pick out a distinctive voice amid the loud music  and equally blaring commercial imperatives that mandate that even the sharpest political jabs be delivered with smiles. In Hollywood every cloud has a silver lining and this one also comes with Willie Nelson." who wrote the screenplay with Jason Richman after it appears watching Garson Kanin’s 1939 movie “The Great Man Votes” (in which John Barrymore’s boozer has  a decisive vote) the film takes its sweet time getting going. Mr. Costner’s entrance as the resident everyman Bud Johnson couldn’t be less heroic or  more  symbolic: he’s passed out and snoring stretched out in last night’s jeans when his 12-year-old  daughter Molly (Madeline Carroll) disgustedly shakes him awake. A former cover-band musician whose life has become a blur of benders Bud has turned his beery nickname into a lifestyle. This drink’s for him and so are the next 11." 
6888
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/01/movies/01stea.html
” by comparison barely qualifies as a glorified Google search." Matthew Luotto and Rick Keller; edited by Katie Larkin Mr. Luotto Xuan Vu and Ekta Bansal Bhargava; music by Laurence Rosenthal; released by Direct Cinema Limited. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." Dorothy Fadiman would argue that that’s exactly the point. In reporting on the suspicious circumstances of recent elections she relies on information gathered by bloggers local newspapers and personal testimony as opposed to the “mainstream media” — those TV networks and national newspapers which supposedly ignored or dismissed evidence of electoral malfeasance." I prefer to have my paranoid liberal indignation enflamed by a little cinematic savoir faire. A call to arms then: Let us reform our glitch-ridden electoral system and while we’re at it retire the cheesy computer effects graceless rhetoric and preaching-to-the-choir irrelevancy of the awkward advocacy doc." I happen to share Ms. Fadiman’s outrage over certain details: the unprecedented discrepancies between exit polls and final vote tallies the wildly divergent wait times for differing populations the anecdotal frequency of “vote switching” on machines designed as if to encourage hacking." “supposedly”! There I go being a tool of the hegemonic MSM." 
6889
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/01/movies/01mumm.html
which themselves are B movies elevated by Steven Spielberg into an action-adventure colossus. So what does that make  the “Mummy” films in the grand scheme of things? C movies?" “Tomb of the Dragon Emperor ” directed by Rob Cohen (“XXX ” “The Fast and the Furious”) is by far the weakest. In it the excitement-starved husband-and-wife exploring team Rick and Evelyn O’Connell (Brendan Fraser and Maria Bello who replaces Rachel Weisz) come out of retirement in 1946 to travel to Shanghai where they are tricked into helping resurrect an evil 2 000-year-old emperor (Jet Li). The emperor’s schemes to become immortal all those years ago were foiled when a benign sorceress (Michelle Yeoh) laid a curse on him. While in Shanghai Rick and Evelyn run into their mischievous college dropout son Alex (the  charmless Luke Ford)." the emperor joined by a rebel Chinese army rushes to the Himalayas where a dip in a pool in Shangri-La promises immortality. He already has supernatural powers and likes to turn himself into a three-headed dragon. Accompanying the O’Connells is Evelyn’s eccentric wisecracking brother Jonathan (John Hannah) who during the flight to the mountains is vomited on by a yak." Simon Duggan; edited by Joel Negron and Kelly Matsumoto; music by Randy Edelman; production designer Nigel Phelps; produced by Sean Daniel James Jacks Stephen Sommers and Bob Ducsay; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." cluttered mess of cheesy computer-generated action-adventure clichés is that at least you can see how the estimated $175 million budget (according to the Internet Movie Database) was spent. We get an avalanche an army of bow-and-arrow-wielding skeletons a car chase that turns into a fireworks explosion and a cadre of snowy yetis. In  the movie’s futile drive to conjure visceral excitement the action sequences are edited into an incoherent jumble that makes you feel trapped on a rickety airplane sitting in a pool of yak vomit." Jet Li (Emperor) Maria Bello (Evelyn O’Connell) John Hannah (Jonathan Carnahan) Russell Wong (Ming Guo) Liam Cunningham (Maguire) Luke Ford (Alex O’Connell) Isabella Leong (Lin) and Michelle Yeoh (Zi Yuan)." 
6890
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/01/movies/01moti.html
and virtually no living human beings appear on screen. Instead “Profit Motive” contemplates the violence and struggle of the past by examining the markers and monuments that turn up in graveyards and roadsides across the country. The calling of birds and the rustle of trees provide most of the commentary and the effect is somehow to make history more mysteriously distant and more concrete — a matter of stone and weathered plaques inscribed with the records of half-forgotten deeds." ” a 26-minute silent collage of protest as much a document of as a documentary about the turbulence of the late 1960s." Frederick Douglass Susan B. Anthony — while others belong to the more specialized honor roll of the American left. But also as Mr. Zinn suggests to the American mainstream. The labor organizers suffragists and abolitionists memorialized in “Profit Motive” left behind a legacy that includes among other things the eight-hour work day and the right to vote." ” by Howard Zinn as the film’s source and inspiration. But while Mr. Zinn’s book is a passionate and partisan chronicle of American radicalism Mr. Gianvito’s 58-minute documentary strikes a quieter more elegiac tone." in the wind that gives Mr. Gianvito half the title of his film. The other half the profit motive is evoked in a few animated sequences that generically represent greed without adding much to the film’s analysis or to its aesthetics. The absence of any explanatory apparatus limits the pedagogical effectiveness of “Profit Motive and the Whispering Wind ” but if you know at least some of the names and some of the history it is a moving and intriguing reverie." and his travel extensive. Moving in roughly chronological order from the Indian wars and slave rebellions of the colonial period through the civil rights and antiwar movements of more recent times he visits the graves of martyrs organizers and agitators. He finds plaques marking the sites of just about every important strike and massacre in the bloody history of American mining. He takes his camera into overgrown meadows looking for unmarked graves and into well-kept shrines engraved with names and rousing quotations." directed animated and edited by John Gianvito; director of photography Mr. Gianvito; music by Paul Robeson Roberto Cassan Infernal Noise Brigade Ani Difranco and Utah Phillips; released by Traveling Light Productions. Shown with Saul Levine’s 26-minute short film “New Left Note ” at the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 58 minutes. These films are not rated." 
6891
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25orde.html
who edited “The Order of Myth” with Michael Taylor and Geoffrey Richman catches such salient everyday details so artlessly that you may not notice them at first. Shot in sharp clear high-definition video by Michael Simmonds the movie seamlessly shifts between casual in situ interviews and fly-on-the-wall visuals that often shed complicating light on what subjects say when they’re looking into a camera. In one scene Brittain Youngblood a coltish white debutante and self-described liberal visits a kitchen during an event and eagerly chats up an older black woman washing dishes. During their brief conversation the animated Ms. Youngblood keeps backing into an area in which a second black worker is rushing back and forth trying to do her job. Sorry Ms. Youngblood says sorry." a relative newcomer to nonfiction (she has made one previous documentary feature “Be Here to Love Me: A Film About Townes Van Zandt”) approaches her material with a measured calm edging along its borders rather than mounting a frontal attack. She opens with a nighttime image of a broken column on a float — a figure dressed as Folly chases another dressed as Death around the pillar  —  and an interview with a white Mobile resident Dwain Luce explaining with mellifluous gentility that the column probably represents the South. (You may recognize Mr. Luce as one of the veterans in “The War ” Ken Burns’s documentary about World War II.)" both schoolteachers  — are cautious yet optimistic about their city and its racial divide. They see change glimmers of real progress but they don’t have the luxury of naïveté. Most of the white revelers  —  including the queen and king Helen Meaher and Max Bruckmann — all of whom appear significantly wealthier than the black participants are either vaguely or keenly aware of race. Mr. Bruckmann a jovial type with the round face of a well-fed baby and Ms. Meaher a willowy blonde who’s all but swallowed up by her heavily jeweled costume are swaddled in privilege tradition and culture. It’s hard not to notice that every hand that serves them is black." whose acute political self-consciousness hasn’t rendered her any less entitled. More than most Ms. Brown knows that there’s nothing black and white about race in America and nothing specifically Southern about its calamities. Or maybe she’s just more honest. The extent of her sincerity doesn’t become apparent until late in the proceedings when she reveals a personal connection to Mobile that gives this very fine movie a bracing emotional kicker. In contrast to the cloistered all-white Mardi Gras membership group (called a mystic society) that gives the movie its poetic and freighted title Ms. Brown has a beautiful grasp of gray." ” Margaret Brown’s wise and soberly affecting documentary about the separate but unequal Mardi Gras festivities that take place each year in Mobile Ala. Though the city’s Web site discreetly sidesteps the issue this Mardi Gras the oldest in the country  — probably inaugurated by soused French settlers (à votre santé!) in 1703  —  is almost entirely segregated between the children of slave owners and the children of slaves whose celebrations coronations parades and pleasures are as divided as are their views on race." which looks as if it had been knocked from the portico of one of those plantations that remain a potent symbol of the old spooky South. By the time it resurfaces Ms. Brown has traveled into Mobile’s slave- trading past and taken the unquiet pulse of its current race relations going wide and surprisingly deep. With the aid of a handful of essential Mardi Gras players  —  notably the 2007 white king and queen and their equally engaged black counterparts  —  she has observed the costume fittings a wine tasting some party toasting. Eschewing voice-over or any obvious trace of an on-screen or off-screen presence she lets her images a little text and other people do the talking for her. Her quiet has its own force." Michael Simmonds; edited by Michael Taylor Geoffrey Richman and Ms. Brown; produced by Ms. Brown and Sara Alize Cross; released by the Cinema Guild. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." 
6892
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25wire.html
whose earlier films include the semidocumentary “Wisconsin Death Trip” and the fictional feature “The King.”" sexuality and drug references." Mr. Marsh allows the answer to be at once self-evident and profoundly mysterious. A work of art is its own explanation and “Man on Wire” leaves no doubt that Mr. Petit’s coup deserves to be called art. Mr. Blondeau a sensitive and cerebral foil to the impish Mr. Petit chokes up when he recalls watching his friend step out over the abyss. “The important thing is that we did it ” he says." this lovely touching film demonstrates that the World Trade Center sky walk was an important event. The proof is in the emotions — amusement amazement awe — evoked by those images of a tiny human figure balancing above a void. Also gratitude. It is easy to imagine that in contemplating the scale and solidity of those brand-new towers Mr. Petit saw them at least partly as the vehicle of his own immortality (whether or not he survived the crossing). No one looking up at the New York sky on a hazy morning 34 years ago and seeing a man on a wire could have suspected that the reverse would turn out to be true." Mr. Petit’s stunt was a cherished footnote in the annals of New York history one of the touchstones of a crazy awful glittering era in the life of the city. The destruction of the twin towers in the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 2001 revived the memory of that earlier aesthetic assault on the buildings which is now the subject of “Man on Wire ” James Marsh’s thorough understated and altogether enthralling documentary. Wisely Mr. Marsh who based his film on a book Mr. Petit published in 2002 never alludes to Sept. 11. That would have been both distracting and redundant since it’s impossible while watching a movie so intimate in its attention to the towers not to be haunted by thoughts of their fate." he is elfin and energetic a beguiling combination of showboat idealist and con man. And in his early outlaw years before the twin towers walk brought him fame and a measure of legitimacy he combined an exalted sense of artistic mission with a street criminal’s sense of serious mischief." 1974 after months of preparation and years of dreaming a French daredevil named Philippe Petit stepped into the sky above Lower Manhattan. For almost 45 minutes he ambled back and forth on a metal cable strung between the towers of the World Trade Center a feat of illegal tightrope walking that according to a New York Police Department sergeant who recounted Mr. Petit’s act of physical poetry in dry press-conference prose would more aptly be described as dancing." daring wire walker — the French word funambule is a more lyrical as well as a somewhat more ridiculous-sounding term — he conceived a passion for the structures even before they were built." unobtrusive re-enactments) the young Mr. Petit was flipping through a magazine at a doctor’s office when he saw an article about plans to construct the two tallest skyscrapers in the world side by side at the bottom of Manhattan. In his mind and then in a series of sketches and diagrams he drew a simple line connecting the buildings and imagined himself perched atop it." they and some of Mr. Petit’s other confederates — including two American goofballs and Barry Greenhouse a flamboyant insurance executive who served as the all-important inside man — reconstruct their project which they referred to at the time as “the coup ” in fascinating detail. There were engineering problems and also challenges that seem to belong to the world of espionage as well as the inevitable tensions that arise when a group of people pursue a dangerous goal." “Man on Wire” is constructed like a heist movie in the manner of “Rififi” or the revived “Ocean’s Eleven” franchise. Though Mr. Petit was alone on the cable that August morning his walk in the sky was the result of a conspiracy of true believers and casual adventurers. In his two previous acts of guerrilla funambulism — at the Cathedral of Notre-Dame in Paris and on the Harbor   Bridge in Sydney — he relied on the logistical and moral support of several friends including his lover Annie Allix and his faithful sidekick Jean-Louis Blondeau." 
6893
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25norm.html
lighthearted conversations (most of which take place outdoors) “Back to Normandy” has a bucolic placidity that grounds the film in the lulling rhythms of country life and the daily chores of farming and animal husbandry. At times not much appears to be happening until you realize that the director’s sidelong subtle approach has teased out modern-day parallels to the issues that surrounded the Rivière case." as a 16-year-old played the luckier of the killer’s two sisters — now works with mentally handicapped adults." with English subtitles; directors of photography Katell Djian and Mr. Philibert; edited by Mr. Philibert and Thadée Bertrand; produced by Serge Lalou and Gilles Sandoz; released by Kino International. At Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes. This film is not rated." “Back to Normandy” is an overwhelmingly cheerful film (the merry Borel family views its patriarch’s thespian adventure as nothing short of hilarious) that explores the frustrations of filmmaking alongside its impact on an isolated community. Admirers of “To Be and to Have ” Mr. Philibert’s delightful study of a rural schoolteacher may find his elliptical style less engrossing this time out but from bloody start to poignant end “Back to Normandy” is never less than an extraordinary journey through time memory and the repercussions of a baffling bygone crime." Pierre Rivière Having Slaughtered My Mother My Sister and My Brother ...” Adapted from Michel Foucault’s celebrated account (based on the killer’s jailhouse confession) of a young Norman peasant who in 1835 used a billhook to commit triple murder the movie was filmed only a few miles from the crime scene mainly with local residents." ” Mr. Philibert returns to the region to catch up with the cast and relive an experience that was pivotal in forging his artistic identity. But he has more in mind than an indulgence of nostalgia. As he chats with the families whose lives were briefly touched by the arcane disruptions of moviemaking his visit yields a palimpsest of observations on work rationality and the ineluctable connections between history and modernity." the movie opens with the bloody birth of a piglet and the traditional hard-to-watch cruelties — snipping injecting slapping — that accompany it. The animal’s frantic squeals are uncomfortably echoed in a segment of the murder scene from “I Pierre ” one of a number of clips that serve as a bridge between the two films and the villagers’ dual roles as actors and interviewees." 
6894
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25regr.html
in the overlighted hallways and shady side rooms of X Large the director Leesong Hee-il presents a remarkably frank portrait of low-rent South Korean homosexuality (the film was a succès de scandale at home) alert to the varieties of sexual identity colliding with economic need." South Korea the “host bar ” as it is euphemistically known is announced by a sign that suggestively promises “X Large.” Inside young men fresh from the provinces cavort with their jaded city colleagues for the delight of an all-male clientele. There is karaoke binge drinking lap dancing and intimate entanglements in private rooms along with fistfights trash talking broken hearts and bonhomie." Sumin is frequently undressed but psychologically cloaked. It is perverse that a movie concerned with objectification would reduce its hero to an object." with English subtitles) and directed by Leesong Hee-il; director of photography Yun Ji-un; edited by Mr. Leesong and Lee Jeong-min; music by Lee Byung-hoon; production designer Park Hye-sung; produced by Peter Kim; released by Regent Releasing/Here! Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes. This film is not rated." however when it leaves X Large to focus on the sentimental education of Sumin (Lee Young-hoon) a handsome bright-eyed orphan newly arrived in the city. Leaving behind a beloved companion Sumin makes his way through a series of lousy jobs before gravitating to sex work where he is pursued by a desperately smitten young businessman Jaemin (Lee Han)." 
6895
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25xfil.html
Gillian Anderson (Dana Scully) Amanda Peet (Dakota Whitney) Billy Connolly (Father Joseph Crissman) and Alvin (Xzibit) Joiner (Agent Mosley Drummy)." the Nick and Nora of paranormal freakouts  —  a k a David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson —  once again trading dark searching looks under the cover of the long night or even by bright eerie day. Mulder may be wearing a bushy beard (Mr. Carter builds up the character’s entrance so dramatically I expected something rather more leprous) and Scully looks thinner more angled a touch weary. But it’s still them the sexy renegade agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation who for almost a decade poked into strange goings-on partly driven by Mulder’s belief that his sister had been kidnapped by extraterrestrials and partly by a work relationship that became something more." released before the show ended added nothing substantive. It came off like a contract clause writ large a shot at a potential franchise. The new film Mr. Carter’s debut as a feature director adds even less but it won’t hurt the show’s legacy at least among die-hard fans who appreciated it as a wittily sustained pop take on what the historian Richard Hofstadter has called “the paranoid style in American politics.” In the years since the show’s demise American politics has grown all the more paranoid an observation that Mr. Carter — who throws out an easy laugh about President Bush to no real purpose — might have run with instead of stumbling in less interesting directions." though at a reduced temperature. There’s nothing stirring the air between Mulder and Scully who having left the bureau come across as unmoored and unfocused even when they’re working on the outlandish criminal case that drags them back into the twilight zone. A similar lack of urgency characterizes the movie which despite its yowling dogs barking Russians screaming women swelling choral voices and moody cinematography by Bill Roe — which turns even dark blue a deeper shade of black —  never finds a sustainable pulse. Mr. Carter knows how to grab your attention visually but the amalgam of trashy thriller clichés that he has compiled with Frank Spotnitz another series regular creates its own deadening effect. It’s no wonder Mulder and Scully seem so diffident." based on the television series; director of photography Bill Roe; edited by Richard A. Harris; music by Mark Snow; production designer Mark Freeborn; produced by Mr. Carter and Mr. Spotnitz; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." ” Chris Carter has turned me into a reluctant skeptic. Baggy draggy oddly timed and strangely off the mark “The X-Files: I Want to Believe” is the generally bad-news follow-up to the show’s first feature-film incarnation “The X-Files.” Released in 1998 and directed by Rob Bowman one of the show’s regular frontmen that earlier film was a seamless translation of the series’s paranoid vibe and trademark geek cool. The series supersized nicely filling the larger spatial dimensions by staying true to its conceptual parameters." 
6896
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25teen.html
kids who might have stepped out of the mists of your own adolescence or if you’ve managed to suppress those memories out of other teen movies from the canonical works of John Hughes to um “Not Another Teen Movie.”" Jock Rebel Heartthrob and Geek — and then shoehorned into a series of senior-year narratives each one turning on a predictable but nonetheless gripping question. Will the popular girl get her comeuppance or see the error of her ways? Will the geek get a date for the prom? Will it work out between the arty girl and her mismatched beau? Will the team win the big game?" a breakup via text message — to complicate the anticipated narrative arc. There are moments of breathtaking cruelty unguarded emotion and plain weirdness. And there are some genuinely scary turns as when Hannah brutally dumped by the boyfriend before Mitch falls into a depression so severe that she can’t bring herself to go to school." shocking or even especially surprising. “American Teen” includes some swearing drinking and smoking a lot of vicious gossip and a smattering of sex talk but nothing likely to feed the cultural appetite for panic at the spectacle of kids gone wrong. What might make an older viewer feel a little squeamish is that the Warsaw High seniors seem almost completely undefended without the sense of shame or privacy that might protect them from our prying eyes. Even when they are wearing microphones few of them display much visible self-consciousness or discomfort. You might almost think they were acting out scenes rather than just living their lives." non-adult people at an especially vulnerable crux in their lives is something of an ethical minefield. Can a filmmaker investigate the sexual emotional and family lives of innocent youngsters without slipping into exploitation? The easy answer confirmed by “American Teen ” is no way. And why even try? In a project like this one the line between sympathy and prurience is not so much thin as nonexistent. Once we know a little about how these kids think interact and behave we are caught between the hunger to know everything and the impulse to look away before we learn too much." Megan Krizmanich and her blond sidekick Ali Wikalinska young women who wield inordinate power over the social fates of their peers. There is Colin Clemens the basketball star hoping to land a college scholarship and facing pressure at home from his ex-athlete dad. There is Hannah Bailey the artsy misfit girl who dreams of becoming a filmmaker and who enters into a transgressive romance with a dimple-chinned athlete named Mitch Reinholt. And there is also  Jake Tusing a self-identified nerd with a bad haircut serious acne and a heavy  video-game habit." the arrangement of chaotic events into coherent story lines the withholding of information to increase the impact of its disclosure — become tokens of authenticity. This is the kind of movie the people in it might have made which means that its revelatory power as an investigation of teenage life in America is limited. It tweaks but does not entirely satisfy your desire to see the alleged typicality of the Warsaw High seniors deepened into a source of social insight. Matters of class come up only obliquely and parents are largely in the shadows and when they emerge they are reliably clueless bumbling and unsympathetic. They have the double disadvantage of being grown-ups in a teen movie and of being compared with  their children less intuitively aware of what it means to parade before the camera on screen living an ordinary American life." students in Warsaw Ind. discovered by Nanette Burstein and arrayed in her fascinating queasy-making new documentary. The fascination comes from how unguarded these young people seem to be about their own lives speaking frankly to the camera and allowing it to observe uncomfortable and intimate moments in their lives. The queasiness inevitably arises from the same source." smoking sex and swearing." Laela Kilbourn Wolfgang Held and Robert Hanna; edited by Mary Manhardt Tom Haneke and Ms. Burstein; music by Michael Penn; produced by Ms. Burstein Jordan Roberts Eli Gonda and Chris Huddleston; released by Paramount Vantage. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." and not only because some of the dramatic moments Ms. Burstein captures feel as if they might have been rehearsed. Adolescence has more than its share of built-in drama and high school can resemble an endless series of auditions performances and soap opera episodes. But the members of the class of 2006 to which the subjects of  in “American Teen” belong are part of a generation whose media-saturated lives make Andy Warhol and Marshall McLuhan look positively naïve. Ms. Burstein’s presence invisible and unremarked upon is in a way almost redundant in the era of Facebook YouTube and reality television. These kids were toddlers when MTV first aired “The Real World ” and being on camera or online is another way of being themselves." 
6897
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25csny.html
a journalist who joined the project are priceless Americana. And one juxtaposition — the band performs the anthem “For What It’s Worth ” then the film cuts to a nutty appearance by Mr. Young on “The Colbert Report” — is particularly sweet." including “Ohio ” about the Kent State shootings in 1970 and two years ago Mr. Young (who directs here under his whimsical alias Bernard Shakey) went back on the road with Stephen Stills Graham Nash and David Crosby with some new tunes about Iraq." under the alias Bernard Shakey; written by Mike Cerre; director of photography Mike Elwell; edited by Mark Faulkner; score by Mr.  Young; produced by L. A. Johnson and Mr. Cerre; released by Roadside Attractions Lionsgate and Shangri-La Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 33  minutes." ” Neil Young’s film about a Crosby Stills Nash & Young concert tour in 2006 has some delicious moments but  you never quite shake the feeling  that it’s documenting a tempest in a teapot." ” and there is one interesting scene of people walking out of a concert in Atlanta because of the show’s political tone. But mostly the movie feels like manufactured controversy. In trying to draw parallels to the atmosphere of the 1960s and ’70s it only underscores just how long ago it was that music had the power to shape and focus the public debate." 
6898
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25cana.html
Mitsuki Tanimura (Yuki Niina) Hidetoshi Nishijima (Akira Izawa) and Miyako Koda (Michiko Iwase)." with English subtitles) and directed by Akihiko Shiota; director of photography Yutaka Yamasaki; edited by Toshihide Fukano; music by Yoshihide Otomo; production designer China Hayashi; produced by Kazumi Kawashiro; released by ImaginAsian Pictures and Bandai Visual. At the the ImaginAsian Theater 239 East 59th Street Manhattan. Running time: 2 hours 12 minutes. This film is not rated." “Canary” plays out as a child’s odyssey through an alternately sympathetic and threatening adult world. In images veering from literal to cryptic to surreal the movie presents a society where the weak are exploited and the vulnerable unprotected." Akihiko Shiota sometimes strains too hard for mythic import his patience is a gift. As Yuki watches a blind woman fashion an origami bird the characters’ connection to a simpler collective past is evident in every perfect fold." the Nirvana cult is disbanded and its child members taken into care. Angry and confused 12-year-old Koichi (Hoshi Ishida) escapes from welfare services to search for his younger sister who has been taken to Tokyo by their grandfather. En route he encounters Yuki (Mitsuki Tanimura) a pretty runaway who survives by offering sexual services to lonely men. Both children have lost one parent and suffered at the hands of the other but while Yuki wields a fragile erotic power Koichi clings to the programming instilled in him by months of physical and emotional intimidation." ” a mournful Japanese drama about lost children and sundered families finds inspiration in the deadly sarin nerve gas attacks in the Tokyo subway in 1995." 
6899
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25bust.html
Monika Gosch Robert Traill and Shaun Tomson; narrated by Edward Norton; director of photography Gary Rohan; edited by Danny Bresnik; music by Stuart Michael Thomas; produced by Ms. Gosch and Mr. Traill; released by Screen Media Films. In Manhattan at the Village East 189 Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." ” a documentary about the rise of professional surfing hits all the standard notes of the awestruck historical sports saga. There is the golden age of the scene rhapsodized as a countercultural paradise on the North Shore of Oahu in Hawaii blessed with an endless supply of good vibes and huge waves." if amiable summer diversion." in the mid-1970s the Rebels a clutch of daredevil super-dudes from Australia and South Africa who shake things up with their suicidal bravado and gnarly attitude. Obstacles are overcome (turf wars condescension spectacular wipeouts) triumphs are relished credibility is established pockets fill with cash. Cue peppy montage and halcyon commentary (by the narrator Edward Norton)." the filmmaker Jeremy Gosch puts his wide-eyed narrative together with an easy touch. With its amazing wall-to-wall footage of oceanic derring-do “Bustin’ Down the Door” plays like visual air-conditioning. A rather warmer sensation is in store for admirers of half-naked young men with zero percent body fat sun-bright smiles and faces so dashing they could turn Apollo green with envy." 
6900
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25brot.html
John C. Reilly (Dale Doback) Richard Jenkins (Robert Doback) Mary Steenburgen (Nancy Huff) Adam Scott (Derek Huff) and Kathryn Hahn (Alice Huff)." once again there is the spectacle and pathos of the sexually stunted immature male here times two: Brennan (Mr. Ferrell) and Dale (Mr. Reilly). Richard Jenkins plays Dale’s crinkly father Robert while Mary Steenburgen as Brennan’s mother Nancy takes the fantasy parent role: she’s saintly sexy — her relaxed ready smile telegraphs satisfaction — and endlessly patient. She looks good for a woman who would have had her youngest at about 14. Brennan and his insufferable brother Derek (Adam Scott) both strong arguments for adolescent birth control provide some of the crueler sport in “Step Brothers ” evincing mutual hostility that spills over into sadism. It’s hard to reconcile this nice woman with either Brennan or Derek with his wolfish grin and winner-takes-everything mania." pornography “Star Wars”) seems like grist for the comedy mill or a newspaper trend piece. Mostly though it sounds like an idea that was hatched (Mr. McKay?) in waggish reaction to yet another movie review carping about how American comedies are stuck in adolescence. They are and have been. (“Hey Abbott!”) What’s distinct about the recent cycle of comic juvenilia are its contemporary contours — male camaraderie and self-actualization combined with raunchy guffaws and a preoccupation with women that doesn’t extend to giving them interesting roles — and the ease with which its prominent practitioners are willing to recycle their own laughs to increasingly diminished ends." ” which was produced by Judd Apatow and his and Will Ferrell’s manager Jimmy Miller is nowhere near as good funny or  polished as “Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby ” the Nascar spoof directed by Adam McKay which was also produced by Mr. Apatow and Mr. Miller. In that movie Mr. Ferrell and John C. Reilly play best not terribly bright friends. Here again directed by Mr. McKay they play not terribly bright slackers turned brothers turned friends who after their parents wed generate a lot of noisy fitfully amusing ultimately tiresome havoc. They’re losers that only a mother an entertainment manager or a gang of self-satisfied comedy insiders  could love." who as Derek’s pitifully desperate wife Alice makes dexterous use of a bathroom urinal. Despite this bit of physical comedy potty humor doesn’t play a large role in “Step Brothers ” which like all of Mr. Apatow’s films is firmly perhaps self-consciously rooted in what Freudians term the phallic stage of human development not the anal. The phallic stage is supposed to be the time when little boys realize that little girls are built differently which leads them to see their fathers as rivals for their mothers and in turn leads to castration anxiety." based on a story by Mr. Ferrell Mr. McKay and John C. Reilly; director of photography Oliver Wood; edited by Brent White; music by Jon Brion; production designer Clayton Hartley; produced by Jimmy Miller and Judd Apatow; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." but recently it hasn’t gone anywhere new. Mr. Ferrell has made a big-screen career riffing on dimwitted innocence sometimes aided by Mr. McKay’s sitcom styling. Some of their movies have been funny others less so. Yet successful or not these characters fit right in with Mr. Apatow’s band of horny and virginal (in spirit if not in flesh) boys and men. In “Step Brothers ” Brennan and Dale almost bring down the house by clinging to a delayed adolescence that makes them seem angry rather than playful and joyous. There’s a shadow of darkness to all their thudding blows and sputtering epithets but is it the characters who are so fearful of growing up or is it their creators?" at least in this movie may explain the startling sight of Mr. Ferrell placing his scrotum (or a remarkably persuasive prosthetic) on a drum during one of Brennan and Dale’s full-rattle battles. The penchant for Apatow men letting it all hang out has become a familiar and much-discussed part of the factory formula. Dudes I understand: You have penises. You’re nice and sort of blobby and you don’t look like Tom Cruise but you’re real men. Hot-blooded anatomically correct men and no one should ever forget it least of all the ladies that you can’t stop talking dirty about and hope one day to marry because well that’s the kind of good hot-blooded anatomically correct guys you are." 
6901
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25brid.html
free of any such constraint goes for tilted frames and asymmetrical poetic compositions. The cinematographer Jess Hall renders Gothic interiors in a chiaroscuro as rich and smooth as béarnaise sauce. And the clothes the accents the accessories! Ah yes. England between the wars. Storm clouds gathering on the horizon old chap. Lots of smoking and tuxedo-wearing in the meantime." ” Julian Jarrold’s strenuously picturesque adaptation of the novel by Evelyn Waugh conducts a whirlwind tour of the quadrangles of Oxford and the canals of Venice always returning to the grand country house of the title impersonated with lapidary dignity by Castle Howard. At Brideshead Charles Ryder (Matthew Goode) a young man with artistic ambition and no special pedigree falls under the spell of an aristocratic Roman Catholic family conceiving first a “romantic friendship” with the dissolute epicene younger son Sebastian Flyte (Ben Whishaw) and then lusting in his understated English way after Sebastian’s sister Julia (Hayley Atwell)." who causes a lot of trouble in the Flyte-Marchmain family even as he pretends to be a detached observer of its internal drama. The role calls for a mix of diffidence and magnetism — Charles is a shy stoical seducer — but Mr. Goode shows all the charisma of a stalk of boiled asparagus molded into the likeness of Jeremy Irons. The film can’t explain why Julia or Sebastian would conceive a risky tempestuous passion for Charles other than that Waugh seemed to think they might." Los Angeles Philadelphia Washington Boston San Francisco Seattle Dallas and Chicago." for once to take a stand. At dinner he declares himself an atheist and he and his hostess spar through clenched teeth over matters of the spirit. But the argument as Mr. Jarrold stages it carries no sense of intellectual conviction or historical context. It’s more like Dr. Seuss than Evelyn Waugh: The star-bellied sneetches had bellies with stars and the plain-bellied sneetches had none upon thars." an able enough actor falls into easy caricatural  indications of alcoholism and homosexuality trembling and pouting and occasionally pulling himself into an attitude of doomed fragile nobility. Ms. Atwell by far the best thing about the film manages to endow Julia always the most enigmatic figure in the story with a credible sense of internal conflict. Julia like her mother is headstrong and intelligent but in large part because of her mother’s baleful influence radically limited in her choices and chances." in a mini-series that was broadcast on PBS in 1982 and that holds up remarkably well. That version had a cast of first-rate British actors some of them already known to American audiences (Claire Bloom Laurence Olivier) and others whose fame was about to take wing (notably Jeremy Irons who played Charles). Mr. Jarrold’s rendition with some fine British actors of its own notably Michael Gambon and Emma Thompson as Sebastian and Julia’s estranged parents is necessarily shorter and less faithful to Waugh’s book and also for what it’s worth more cinematic. It is also tedious confused and banal." I’m compelled to add that fine old mini-series it was made into — religious commitments and social relations were part of a thickly detailed complicated and ancient lived reality. The long experience of English Catholics as a religious minority the subtle gradations of class in the British university system the crazy quilt of sexual norms and taboos governing the lives of young adults: all of this is what makes “Brideshead Revisited” live and breathe as a novel. None of it registers with any force in this lazy complacent film which takes the novel’s name in vain." Andrew Davies and Jeremy Brock can be blamed for finding so little new or interesting to say about it and for systematically stripping Waugh’s novel of its telling nuances and provocative ideas. His “Brideshead Revisited” focuses on Charles’s successive  infatuations with Sebastian whom he meets on his first day at Oxford and then with Julia whom he encounters during a summer visit to Brideshead. In both relationships Charles is both passive and opportunistic masking his prurience and what Sebastian and Julia’s mother Lady Marchmain calls his “hunger” with an air of sympathy and good manners." but Lady Marchmain’s monstrosity betrays the weakness of Mr. Jarrold’s grasp of Waugh or perhaps his high-minded intention to improve on the old master’s unfashionably reactionary and bothersomely contradictory views about society and religion. Lady Marchmain in this “Brideshead ” is a nearly allegorical figure of religious fanaticism and rigid piety. Her pathological devotion to her faith is what drove away her husband and deformed her children." Ben Whishaw (Sebastian Flyte) Hayley Atwell (Julia Flyte) Emma Thompson (Lady Marchmain) Michael Gambon (Lord Marchmain) Ed Stoppard (Bridey Flyte) Felicity Jones (Cordelia Flyte) Greta Scacchi (Cara) James Bradshaw (Mr. Samgrass) and Jonathan Cake (Rex Mottram)." based on the novel by Evelyn Waugh; director of photography Jess Hall; edited by Chris Gill; music by Adrian Johnston; production designer Alice Normington; produced by Robert Bernstein Douglas Rae and Kevin Loader; released by Miramax Films and BBC Films. Running time: 2 hours." 
6902
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25bagh.html
which seem so natural that it is tempting to confuse the actors with their characters bring “Baghead” into the realm of group therapy observed through one-way glass." Jay Duplass; edited by Jay Deuby; music by J. Scott Howard; produced by Jay Duplass Mark Duplass and John Bryant; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes." who suggests a chubby younger cousin of Jim Belushi is besotted with Michelle who resembles a younger prettier cousin of Ellen DeGeneres. Michelle hankers for Matt a rangy obnoxiously smug rogue whose on-again off-again 11-year relationship with Catherine (Ms. Muller is a Deborah Kara Unger look-alike) has reached a critical turning point." or whether that something fleetingly glimpsed is merely a projection of the characters’ own fears. As their nerves fray and they turn on one another the film becomes an examination of the fragility of friendship." the  indie subgenre that Jay and Mark Duplass helped invent there is no doubt that the Duplass brothers a writing and directing team have sophisticated radar trained on the undercurrents of contemporary relationships. The shallow crabby characters in their second feature film “Baghead ” are uncomfortably recognizable. Beyond chewing over their own insecurities these smart self-absorbed people have little to say." she peevishly responds that that was the wrong answer. Sounding patently insincere and a little contemptuous Matt revises his rating to 11 which Catherine sullenly accepts. Whatever they may decide about their future the scene lets you know that these two vain self-centered people will be stuck in this dynamic for the foreseeable future." “We Are Naked ” that they see at an underground film festival. In “Baghead” ’s most satirical scene the egomaniacal no-talent director of “We Are Naked” boasts that it was made for under $1 000." Ross Partridge (Matt) Greta Gerwig (Michelle) and Elise Muller (Catherine)." “The Puffy Chair ” a cult hit and it functions just as efficiently in “Baghead ” a comedy-horror spoof that superficially resembles “The Blair Witch Project.” The four main characters —  Chad (Steve Zissis) Michelle (Greta Gerwig) Matt (Ross Partridge) and Catherine (Elise Muller) — are actors and writers on the fringes of Hollywood whose relationships are complicated by sexual signals they exchange but are loath to acknowledge. That’s the way it often is with mumblecore characters urbane slackers whose inhibitions keep them on edge." she replies that he is like a best friend and brother rolled into one. As he moves in to kiss her she turns her cheek. He is crushed but keeps silent. To ease her discomfort Michelle stays drunk much of the time." the four get drunk and decide to make a relationship movie but the project stalls for lack of ideas. In the middle of the night Michelle stumbles woozily out of bed to be sick outdoors and sees what appears to be a man with a bag over his head. The next morning she thinks it was a nightmare. The baghead image inspires them to cook up a horror film about a killer with a paper bag over his head." longings and jealousies among the four inform the practical jokes they play on one another as the weekend drags on. First one then another then a third member of the foursome disappear leaving ambiguous signs of abduction. The car they drove into the woods is also vandalized. Each disappearance is signaled by a tinkle of wind chimes." 
6903
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/25/movies/25anim.html
” a stop-motion tour de force from a filmmaker who calls himself PES; and “Hot Dog ” the latest from the animation superstar Bill Plympton in which a plump little dog eager to ingratiate himself with a fire department inadvertently urinates gasoline on a lovingly hand-drawn conflagration." compiled  by Mike Judge. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. These films are not rated." ” from the commercial filmmaking team known as Smith & Foulkes does pratfalls in pixels with a pair of unlucky undertakers and one slippery coffin. “Voodoo” and “Blindspot ” products of the French visual arts college Gobelins merge world-class craftsmanship with distinctly European fatalism. (Though unrated “The Animation Show” isn’t intended for the wee ones as witness the self-explanatory “Angry Unpaid Hooker.”)" expensive-looking computer animation on display in the fourth edition of “The Animation Show ” a collection of some two dozen  animated shorts made in a variety of mediums (hand drawn stop motion claymation live action hybrids) to varying degrees of success and/or silliness." ” by the witty English animator Grant Orchard deploys warring teams of yellow and blue blocks over a camouflage landscape for an abstracted round of paint ball warfare. Brilliantly colored and smartly staged this two-minute coup deserves to go viral and judging from its million-plus views on YouTube it’s well on its way." 
6904
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/23/movies/23boya.html
the grounded no-nonsense secretary at his job. Every step of that courtship from gathering the courage to ask her out to their first kiss is a major personal leap forward. But as Jack’s heart opens he longs to tell Michelle about his past and clear the slate." ” Manchester looks much the same now as it did in movies back then. The identical brick buildings and narrow streets through which Jack furtively scuttles evoke time-honored film images of Britain’s northern industrial cities as forbidding prisonlike environments. Although shot in color “Boy A” leaves a black-and-white impression." Jack spots a car that has spun off the road into the woods and saves the life of a young girl trapped in the vehicle. He becomes a local hero. But heroes — even genuine ones — are resented. So is the media attention that heroism brings. Society doesn’t forget violent crimes even those committed by children. As flashbacks reveal Jack’s past “Boy A” asks us to weigh issues about forgiveness justice and human nature." Lindsay Anderson and John Schlesinger which portrayed a depressed alienated  working class teetering between rage and hopelessness in a stagnant economy." like a baby bird shoved from its nest your instincts are protective. When he goes out drinking with his co-workers and swallows a tab of Ecstasy without knowing what it is you worry that disaster is imminent. Later when he comes to the rescue of Chris (Shaun Evans) his closest friend at work in a drunken rooftop brawl the movie portrays his violent intervention as brave and not as a scary reversion to previous behavior." based on the novel by Jonathan Trigell; director of photography Rob Hardy; edited by Lucia Zucchetti; music by Paddy Cunneen; production designer Jon Henson; produced by Lynn Horsford Nick Marston and Tally Garner; released by the Weinstein Company. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie is unambiguously enamored of Jack Burridge né Eric Wilson (Andrew Garfield) who is re-entering society under a new name after having served 14 years in a juvenile prison in Manchester England. Given a job and a modest one-room apartment Jack seems ready to make a go of it. The details of his heinous crime are leaked out gradually." Eric develops a friendship with Philip Craig (Taylor Doherty) a fellow outcast with a history of sexual abuse and a streak of sociopathic rage." it implies that for the majority of people some crimes are unforgivable; once a monster always a monster. The pill we are asked to swallow is a very bitter one." who at the time of his crime was identified as Boy A because he was under age doesn’t jibe with its portrait of the dewy verbally stumbling man released from juvenile prison. Shy and handsome prone to frightening nightmares Jack is desperately eager to put the past behind him. His emotional lifeline is his stern kindhearted caseworker Terry (Peter Mullan) who has a son around Jack’s age. The movie pointedly compares Terry’s alienation from his biological son with his devotion to his surrogate one." Peter Mullan (Terry) Katie Lyons (Michelle) Shaun Evans (Chris) and Taylor Doherty (Philip Craig)." Terry emphasizes is Jack to reveal his former identity or to discuss his imprisonment. The only information that his new employer at the delivery company that hires him has is that he served time and paid his debt to society." 
6905
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18huma.html
“The Road to Eternity”" which demands at least the prospect of a happy ending somewhere in the future “The Human Condition” takes a pessimistic almost despairing view of its subject. Where is that train going? Some of Kaji’s companions take a romantic view of Japan’s Soviet enemy imagining that it holds out a promise of democracy and equality. Kaji though he is drawn to some aspects of Socialist thinking never becomes a true believer and ends up more of an existentialist hero than an exemplar of supposed political progress." Ms.  Aratama (Michiko) Kokinji Katsura (Sasa) and Jun Tatara (Hino)." directed by Masaki Kobayashi; written (in Japanese with English subtitles) by Zenzo Matsuyama and  Mr. Kobayashi  along with  (in Part III) Koichi Inagaki; based on the novel by Jumpei Gomikawa; director of photography Yoshio Miyajima; edited by Keiichi Uraoka; music by Chuji Kinoshita;  Part I produced by Shigeru Wakatsuki;  Part II produced by Tatsuo Hosoya; Part III produced by Mr. Wakatsuki and  Mr.  Kobayashi; released by Janus Films. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Sixth Avenue South Village. Running times: Part I 3 hours 28 minutes; Part II 3 hours 3 minutes; Part III 3 hours 16 minutes. This film is not rated." rather like a frontier town in an old western. And Kaji’s experience there detailed in the epic film’s first and longest part “No Greater Love ” sets the template for what will follow. In trying to implement basic reforms he must first deal with the complacency of his superiors and the corruption of the work-gang bosses who control day-to-day underground activity and then with the harsh arrogant authoritarianism of the  military police who bring in prisoners of war for slave labor." he is very much a creature of his time — the late 1950s not the mid-’40s — and “The Human Condition” can in its speechifying moments feel a bit creaky. But it is also and more frequently amazingly powerful in its emotional sweep and the depth of its historical insight. The human condition is murky messy and perhaps unredeemable but a great work of art can make you believe otherwise however briefly (if nearly 10 hours counts as briefly). And whatever its flaws and infelicities —  on such a large canvas the brushwork can hardly be perfect — Kobayashi’s monumental film can clarify and enrich your understanding of what it is to be alive." fleeing the triumphant Soviet Army  in 1945 — and even after the Russians take him prisoner — Kaji’s dogged reforming impulse survives. Bearded ragged and wild-eyed he takes on the air of a fanatic but his zeal is always in the cause of gentleness and compassion." a friend of Kaji’s teases him for his high-minded moral ardor: “You’ll ride the humanism train no matter how much it costs you.” The metaphor may be a bit awkward in English but it captures the spirit of the movie all the same. Kobayashi was one of the leading figures in postwar Japanese cinema a peer of Akira Kurosawa and Kon Ichikawa though his critical reputation abroad never quite matched theirs. He was also part of a broader humanist tendency in world cinema. “The Human Condition” was made at around the same time as Satyajit Ray’s “Apu” trilogy and Luchino Visconti’s “Rocco and His Brothers ” and like them it is a work of large-scale realism grounded in a thorough but undogmatic left-wing political sensibility." Michiyo Aratama (Michiko) Chikage Awashima (Jin Tung Fu) and Ineko Arima (Yang Chun Lan)." “The Human Condition ” adapted by Masaki Kobayashi from Jumpei Gomikawa’s six-volume novel is anything but modest in scope and ambition. First released in Japan in three parts between 1959 and 1961 the film is a sprawling crowded 10-hour epic of love war heroism and cruelty. Shot in a wide-screen format called Grandscope and set mainly in Manchuria during the Japanese occupation it seems intent on leaving nothing out. Mountains forest marshlands; marriage combat hard labor; the call of duty and the obligations of conscience — that over-reaching title turns out to be a pretty fair description of what’s on screen." who served in the Japanese Imperial Army during World War II — repeatedly refusing promotion above the rank of private as a form of protest — presents a cleareyed devastating critique of his country’s military traditions against which Kaji is ranged in an increasingly lonely and perilous struggle. After his experiment in bringing a measure of decency to the mine ends in personal catastrophe redeemed by a partial moral victory he is conscripted into the army where he tries once again to bring a measure of fairness and dignity to a system built on the corruption coercion and the humiliation of the weak." or at least photographed to look that way Kaji occupies an elevated moral plane as well. In conditions that become for him and those around him increasingly harsh and perilous he insists on doing the right thing and on prevailing by reason rather than by force. As a young manager for a Japanese mining company in Manchuria (then the puppet state of  Manchukuo) he writes a report proposing improved conditions for Chinese workers. His boss is a bit skeptical but nonetheless sends Kaji along with his adoring wife Michiko (Michiyo Aratama) out to the hinterlands to put his theories into practice." “No Greater Love”" Ms. Aratama (Michiko) Tamao Nakamura (Refugee) and Yusuke Kawazu (Terada)." and most memorably an intimately scaled chronicle of individual experience. Tatsuya Nakadai who plays its hero an idealistic technocrat named Kaji appears in nearly every frame and it is his deeply personal anguish that provides an emotional anchor for this episodic theme-heavy story. Mr. Nakadai one of Japan’s great movie stars of the 1960s (and the subject of a fantastic retrospective at Film Forum  that concludes with a three-week run of an immaculate new print of “The Human Condition”) looks a bit like a young Gregory Peck. And in this film he plays as Peck often did a liberal man of principle trying to uphold his ideals in difficult circumstances." “A Soldier’s Prayer”" 
6906
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18forg.html
who is writing a memoir declares more than once that he has contemplated suicide he doesn’t seem especially unhappy. Even on the erotic front hope springs eternal. He and his friend Georges (Jean Pommier) a married closeted lawyer cheerfully compare the costs of hustlers. When the talk isn’t about the price of flesh it is gossip about estates how to protect undeclared income smuggle money across borders and finagle financial security. Because of his bravado and power games with his older lover we discover Pierre lost out on his inheritance." Mr. Nolot goes out of his way to puncture any illusions he may have of being desirable to the boys he covets. As the camera studies Pierre from a distance in his dimly lighted apartment and slowly surveys the possessions on his shelves you sense a man who has accepted the choices he has made." the human nature it portrays has no shelf life. When you reach a certain age it emphasizes money becomes paramount." his regular rent boy insists on dressing him in drag and taking him to the Pigalle district. He initially refuses. He would have to shave off his mustache he protests. But he changes his mind." naked in the throes of simulated sex “Before I Forget” is an unblinking portrait of a complicated solitary gay man who has outlived his working years. A male escort who for decades was kept by a lion of French society 15 years his senior who has just died Pierre is reduced to paying rent boys for sex an activity he pursues assiduously even though he doesn’t appear to enjoy it very much." Jean-Pol Dubois (the Man) Marc Rioufol (Paul) Bastien d’Asnières (Marc) Gaetano Weysen-Volli (Cute Guy) Bruno Moneglia (Bruno) Jean Pommier (Georges) and David Kessler (Manosky)." the film’s 60-year-old protagonist who lives alone in a modest Paris apartment the near future is more ominous than for most. Pierre H.I.V. positive for 24 years has been advised to take a more aggressive drug cocktail than the medication that has sustained him. He is reluctant because of its toxic side effects including hair loss. His body may be dilapidated but his face is still handsome in a hawklike way and crowned by an elegant gray mane." a whole new personality emerges. With his sharp features vigilant birdlike gaze his feet planted in a doorway the drag version of Pierre is a hardened whore decades past her prime but still defiantly pounding the pavement." a stark image of the void that looms more prominently as we age." and now the roles are reversed; it is his turn to purchase the kind of ritualized domination found in Jean Genet novels. You sense that he seeks to be punished by versions of his younger self. It doesn’t seem to have occurred to Pierre that there is any other kind of erotic transaction worth pursuing." with English subtitles) and directed by Jacques Nolot; director of photography Josée Deshaies; edited by Sophie Reine; music by Gustave Mahler; production designer Gaëlle Guitard; produced by Pauline Duhault; released by Strand Releasing. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes. This film is not rated." a French actor writer and director closely associated with André Téchiné. This movie follows Pierre around Paris as he visits acquaintances in his circle of johns and hustlers has sessions with an obtuse psychiatrist and remembers how the family of his longtime sugar daddy closed ranks and shut Pierre out of his inheritance." 
6907
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18dete.html
“Mad Detective” doesn’t have the intense sharply focused logic that characterizes some of Mr. To’s recent excursions into (and beyond) genre in titles like “Breaking News” and “Exiled.” Part of this may be due to the shared directing credit on the new film though part of the problem lies with the murkily conceived lead character. A sympathetic presence even when he’s wielding a blade Mr. Lau tends to comes across here as too laidback for a man who’s either dancing on the brink or may have already tumbled. He projects dazed innocence nicely but often seems more befuddled or odd than possessed." it turns on the kind of gimmick  —  a detective who’s daft clairvoyant or both —  that could have been cooked up by Quinn Martin the television genius who with hit 1970s shows like “Cannon ” stoked the vogue for the kind of off-the-beat quirk-ridden private eyes that are still clogging network TV and basic cable." “Mad Detective” has enough consummate film style to make many of the narrative bumps more or less irrelevant. Among its most sustained pleasures is its clever attention-grabbing idea that Bun may actually be able to see the real personalities lurking inside other people. The filmmakers don’t bother to plumb the depths of this revelation poking about Bun’s existential turmoil and whatnot. Instead they just go as gloriously overboard as their detective at his best and sometimes worst specifically by unleashing a dazzling riff on the funhouse climax of Orson Welles’s “Lady From Shanghai.” It really has to be seen before it can be believed." Bun has been bounced from the force. He’s soon back however dragged into new action by a complicated crime involving murder madness dirty cops and multiple warring personalities. The man who drags him back to police life is the same earnest young detective Ho (Andy On) who zipped Bun up and tossed him down the stairs. The pig-stabbing suitcase-bouncing scene it emerges has been a warm-up for the ensuing complications an encapsulation of the themes  —  Bun’s self-punishing isolation his otherworldliness and genius  —  that will play more fully as the story zigs and zags and wildly lurches from one unforeseen moment to the next." with English subtitles) by Wai Ka Fai and Au Kin Yee; director of photography Cheng Siu Keung; music by Xavier Jamaux; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie’s detective the rumpled Inspector Bun (played with sleepy appeal by Lau Ching Wan) could not be more off the police or genre beat. In the showy show-stopping opener he enters with a bang or rather a few thrusts of the knife repeatedly stabbing a dead pig (the latest action-flick trope) hanging in a dimly lighted police room. Seemingly oblivious to the small audience of cops watching him he repeatedly stabs the innocent porker before pausing and asking another detective to zip him Bun up in a (soft!) suitcase and toss him down the stairs. When he unzips less than five minutes past the start line after a flurry of edits and raked camera angles have shattered the space like a mirror Bun announces he’s solved a case." Andy On (Ho) Lam Ka Tung (Chi-wai) and Kelly Lin (May/Inspector Cheung)." 
6908
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18berl.html
“Berlin” chronicles the disintegration of a couple’s relationship in West Berlin in the era before the wall dividing East and West was torn down. The wife (or lover) Caroline (filmed for a fragmentary silent movie within the movie by the director’s daughter Lola Schnabel  and played by Emmanuelle Seigner) is a speed and sex addict who sneers at her partner for being passive and unmanly and binges on depravity until the authorities step in and take away their children. Caroline eventually commits suicide by slashing her wrists." produced by Bob Ezrin in the grand style of ’70s concept albums is Mr. Reed’s most operatic. For the concert in addition to basic rock instrumentation intensely dramatic arrangements with four horn and reed players two violas and a cello were used. In the more contemplative passages the music seems to hover as though holding its breath until the last second before a storm breaks. When it does the guitars swell to a howling crescendo that evokes the passing of a tornado." Ellen Kuras; edited by Benjamin Flaherty; produced by Jon Kilik and Tom Sarig; released by Third Rail. In Manhattan at the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street South Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes." “Speed Is of the Essence ” published in 1971 when the perils of methedrine addiction were just beginning to be recognized. The book’s centerpiece portrayed a desperate drug-addicted couple spiraling toward insanity." not from “Berlin ” include Mr. Reed’s ominously quiet “Rock Minuet ” from his 2000 album “Ecstasy”; “Candy Says ” a duet between Mr. Reed and the ethereal-voiced Antony (of Antony and the Johnsons) that evokes the same demonic-seraphic dichotomy found in “Berlin”; and his Velvet Underground classic “Sweet Jane.”" Jim (Mr. Reed) narrates the story in the tone of a helpless bystander whose bottled rage sporadically leaks out only to be swallowed as he resumes his attitude of stoic detachment. In the final number “Sad Song ” Jim still besotted with the memory of Caroline confesses in Mr. Reed’s typical clipped verbiage: “I thought she was Mary Queen of Scots/My castle kids and home/I tried so very hard/Shows just how wrong you can be.”" ” Mr. Reed wears the deadpan smirk of a Zen master who has endured unusually punishing Buddhist training. His look isn’t that of a blissed-out monk newly returned from mountaintop meditations. It is the grimly amused seen-it-all stare of a voyeuristic chronicler of drug-fueled sadomasochistic rituals in the grittier corners of cities that never sleep. This is the real world Mr. Reed seems to signal while strumming tough minimalist riffs on his guitar and singing in a quavering gravelly monotone: Get used to it boys and girls." where the movie was filmed Mr. Reed performed with a 35-piece ensemble conducted by his fellow guitarist Steve Hunter who played on the original 1973 “Berlin” album. The movie faithfully reproduces the sound of that record which was a commercial disappointment when released." but so do angels. The voices of the Brooklyn Youth Chorus lend the score a thread of eerie sweetness. In the most evocative moment the voices flutter downward like falling angels sighing in defeat." Mr. Schnabel describes “Berlin” as the soundtrack of his life. I hesitate to imagine what that means. As a cautionary tale “Lou Reed’s Berlin” is an 85-minute public-service announcement that preaches “Just say no.” The force of the music however lends this tawdry melodrama a tragic stature." 
6909
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18wond.html
psychic ruin on wheels: a crew of disaffected teenagers prowling about on motorcycles displaced trouble-seeking adrift fated to break forth the tensions beneath the film’s placid surface." a handsome young architect overseeing a beachfront development. Na and Ton play their parts — she the curious reticent housekeeper; he the shy grateful guest — but another game is afoot slipping around the edges of their customary roles. The faintest blush a lingering look a gift of oranges from the market a conversation that goes on a little longer than normal. They’re falling ever so softly in love." where time and space are mercurial creatures and mythical beasts pad through the forest the air in “Wonderful Town” feels charged with weird energies as if something strange and possibly menacing is about to erupt. And so it does in a single word uttered by Ton in pillow talk with Na: “Tsunami.”" with English subtitles) and directed by Aditya Assarat; director of photography Umpornpol Yugala; edited by Lee Chatametikool; music by Koichi Shimizu and Zai Kuning; production designer Karanyapas Khamsin; produced by Soros Sukhum and Jetnipith Teerakulchanyut; released by Kino International. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." easing into and out of scenes with an unrushed tempo that lets each emotion thought and subtle effect flower then fade away. His frames are meticulous without being fussy and his camera movements suave and suggestive delineating the sentiment of the moment with precision and grace." ” by its third act is a title drowning in irony. Wondrous nevertheless is Mr. Assarat’s sustained command as he guides his material into darker waters. It’s no small feat to pull off as sweet and sensitive a romance as that between Na and Ton and something rarer yet to suffuse such affections into a poem of wounded landscape." Supphasit Kansen (Ton) and Dul Yaambunying (Na’s Young Brother)." for the elegance with which it traces the contours of experience — or perhaps given the context Apichatpongian is the better term. The mellow bliss and aesthetic delicacy of “Wonderful Town” recall the work of the ingenious Thai cinéaste Apichatpong Weerasethakul creator of idiosyncratic romances like  “Tropical Malady” and “Syndromes and a Century.” Mr. Assarat shares with his compatriot an elegant intuitive ease coupled with prodigious formal control though  of a less experimental bent than his better-known colleague." adjacent to a ruined building rumored to be haunted; that lonely hotel that used to bustle with tourists; that aspect of something submerged in Ton’s physical carriage and expression — these are remnants of the cataclysmic storm from 2004 that claimed thousands of lives in Takua Pa." for a good long while very nice indeed in “Wonderful Town.” Written and directed by Aditya Assarat this lucid debut unfolds in a comfy patch of southern Thailand nestled in a lush green valley near the sea. Takua Pa the place is called and a woman named Na (Anchalee Saisoontorn) calls it home." 
6910
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18tran.html
who pretends not to notice. A little later when he shows her a sample from the suitcase of tchotchkes he says they are planning to sell in Amsterdam you wonder if these little porcelain dolls might be stuffed with drugs." seen briefly at the beginning of the movie before disappearing only to re-emerge much later plays Grinko a duplicitous narcotics detective. A sophisticated embodiment of a cynical middle-aged Russian with a double vision of his country during and after Communism he lends the movie a modern Dostoyevskian gloss." on which most of the movie is set is  not to be confused with the luxurious  Orient Express of earlier train dramas. The rickety Communist-era relic has an overtly hostile crew toilets that don’t flush and sleeping cars in which travelers are packed like sardines. Instead of glamorous well-heeled tourists with stacks of expensive luggage most of the passengers are sullen peasants and rowdy drunks. At each stop policemen with drug-sniffing dogs patrol the aisles." Ms. Mortimer takes her complicated character and runs with it." returning safe and sound and chipper as ever is accompanied by Grinko whom he met and befriended in Irkutsk. With his glittering eyes and mocking smirk dropping cynical aphorisms about Soviet versus capitalist Russia Grinko is a fascinatingly ambiguous figure simultaneously wise and corrupt good and evil with scary psychological radar. “In Russia we have an expression ” he says fixing his eyes on Jessie who is frozen with panic. “With lies you may go forward in the world but you may never go back.”" one scene of torture strong language and sexual situations." Xavier Giménez; edited by Jaume Martí; art director Iñigo Navarro; produced by Julio Fernández; released by First Look Studios. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." who wrote the screenplay with Will Conroy it skillfully manipulates familiar tropes: innocents abroad ominous glowering foreigners conspiracy and duplicity erotic intrigue. Until it fizzles in an anticlimactic train crash it is extremely entertaining." an amateur photographer is a reformed bad girl with a history of drug and alcohol abuse. Roy met her when she had hit rock bottom and stood by her during her recovery. She still clings to a cigarette habit. While Roy longs for children Jessie wants to put off having a family. For all her surface primness underneath she is a reckless adventurer. When faced with sexual temptation she muses darkly “I sure wish I’d met you back in the day.”" snow-covered landscape with many stops along the way you lean back and prepare to get lost in a Siberian gulag where you can’t speak the language and have no global positioning system or even a compass for guidance. The paranoid mood intensifies during the first two-thirds in which the suspense is comparable to that found in the best films of that mystery-train master Alfred Hitchcock. Once the movie turns into an action-thriller aboard detached runaway railroad cars however it ends up sidetracked." Carlos and Abby stay by her side and the movie teases you with the notion that something dreadful happened to him. With time on their hands Carlos coaxes Jessie to take a bus into the countryside and hike into the forest to visit a crumbling church leaving Abby behind in their seedy hotel. The rest of the drama hinges on horrific events that take place during this traumatic side trip." the mystery soup thickens. Carlos (Eduardo Noriega) a handsome Spaniard in his late-30s with a crooked flash in his eyes and Abby (Kate Mara) a glum 20-year-old runaway from Seattle are a suspiciously odd pair of international nomads who claim to be returning from a stint teaching English in Japan." a naïve American couple returning to the United States from China where they have been teaching English as part of a church-sponsored charity program. There are ominous portents. Early in the trip they are regaled with the story of a passenger from whom a corrupt Russian policeman extorted thousands of dollars and cut off two toes because the name on his passport was misspelled." Emily Mortimer (Jessie) Kate Mara (Abby) Eduardo Noriega (Carlos) Thomas Kretschmann (Myassa) and Ben Kingsley (Grinko)." 
