8020
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/29/movies/29guar.html
a former high school swimming champion with aviator shades and a self-satisfied smirk. Jake’s first encounters with his teacher are a bit uncomfortable but deep down the two men seem to know as well as the audience that each will learn some valuable lessons from the other. Jake will learn the value of sacrifice and teamwork — saving lives is not about personal glory — and Ben will learn not to give up on himself." Alaska where his job is to leap from a helicopter to swim after unlucky souls who have been swept into the cold churning waters of the Bering Sea. Ben’s love for his work has strained his marriage and he arrives home from a live-saving mission to find his wife Helen (Sela Ward) packing up to leave. “I need to work on rescuing myself ” she says." Stephen St. John; edited by Dennis Virkler and Thomas J. Nordberg; music by Trevor Rabin; production designer Maher Ahmad; produced by Beau Flynn and Tripp Vinson; released by Touchstone Pictures and Beacon Pictures. Running time: 139 minutes." it sometimes feels like five pictures in one and therefore piles up multiple endings. “The Guardian ” emphatically directed by Andrew Davis from a script by Ron L. Brinkerhoff is an action movie a basic training movie a swaggering sea adventure a home front melodrama and an inspiring tough-love heroic teacher fable. If the aggregate of all these movies is exhausting and occasionally overwrought some of the parts are stirring and effective though not exactly fresh." after a night of bonding and truth-telling Jake apologizes to Ben for various failings. “Don’t you have anything you want to say to me?” Jake asks expecting an apology in return. But the older man just stares at him blankly. It’s a funny moment but also a revealing one since there is nothing in “The Guardian” that suggests anything like real fallibility. In the movie’s fifth and final ending Ben’s selfless goodness is pushed to the very edge of earthly heroism as he becomes an almost theological figure." though there is mentoring to be done in a manner that suggests a serviceable variation on the “Top Gun”/“Officer and a Gentleman” model most of it taking place in a swimming pool. Mr. Kutcher has a sly star quality and some of the supporting actors — notably Neal McDonough as Ben’s fellow teacher and sort-of-rival and Melissa Sagemiller as the schoolteacher who serves as Jake’s love interest — bring a sparkle of wit and invention to their stock characters. The participation of actual members of the Coast Guard lends an air of authenticity and the mission of “The Guardian” is in its way as admirable as their own. It’s not a great movie but it’s certainly one of the finest Coast Guard pictures you’re likely to see anytime soon." but also some effective pumped-up action sequences with computer-generated waves and howling winds most of them early and late in the film. Sandwiched between the big start and the big finishes is a paradigmatic Kevin Costner movie in which he plays the crusty world-weary but unshakably decent mentor to a hot-headed tyro in this case Ashton Kutcher." after the debacle of “Waterworld” more than a decade ago Kevin Costner would be loath to leave dry land. But like his character Ben Randall a Coast Guard rescue swimmer Mr. Costner just can’t stay out of the drink." Ashton Kutcher (Jake Fischer) Melissa Sagemiller (Emily Thomas) Bonnie Bramlett (Maggie McGlone) Clancy Brown (Capt. William Hadley) Sela Ward (Helen Randall) Neal McDonough (Jack Skinner) John Heard (Frank Larson) Brian Geraghty (Hodge) Dulé Hill (Ken Weatherly) and Shelby Fenner (Cate)." Ben descends to the lower 48 where he becomes an instructor in the brutal training program for rescue divers known as “A School.”" perhaps too comfortable. The profane leathery sad-sack qualities of the character — his unorthodox teaching methods his fondness for whiskey his gruff manner — amount to a nearly transparent veneer smeared over his essential saintliness." the Coast Guard has been underrepresented in American movies no doubt because its missions and its motto — “That others may live” — do not involve combat which is after all the staple of military cinema. “The Guardian ” made in cooperation with and in celebration of the Coast Guard seems to have been produced with the intention of making up the deficit all at once." salty language and implied sex." 
8021
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/27/movies/27king.html
he had fled Uganda in 1979 after murdering upwards of 300 000 souls. Larger than life physically and metaphorically he was a former heavyweight boxing champion with a brilliant sense of leadership as a performance: as a dictator his methods were brutally antediluvian but his public relations cunning was consummately 20th century. Smiling into cameras he dropped provocations like bombs: “I don’t like human flesh. It’s too salty for me.”" who had become president after tossing out the country’s king five years earlier. (Mr. Obote himself may have been responsible for half a million deaths.) “The Last King of Scotland” opens shortly after Amin has seized power and his madness had yet to take at least visible bloom. After a brief spell working at a clinic run by a white British doctor (Adam Kotz) and his wife (a very fine almost unrecognizable Gillian Anderson) Garrigan signs on with Amin. The Scot eagerly makes the transition from rural slum to Amin’s Kampala compound embracing his ready-made privilege as he drinks in the general’s charisma and hungrily feeds on his praise. A master of manipulation this Amin knows a choice morsel when one flies into his trap." the film means this journey to be as inwardly directed as outwardly bound though the larger message here one that might make you blanch after you nod is that the misery of other people makes unsettling entertainment no matter how pretty the pictures and valuable the players." “The Last King of Scotland” would make an even better double bill with Stephen Frears’s forthcoming film “The Queen ” a sly peek at the current British monarch in the wake of the death of Princess Diana. (Amin once wrote milady: “Dear Liz if you want to know a real man come to Kampala.”) Amin was an amateur merchant of death compared with the historic British monarchy but he absorbed the lessons of its colonial tyranny fatally well." Mr. Whitaker doesn’t look like the man he’s playing a point that becomes less crucial as the performance takes root. As much a seducer as a destroyer his Amin changes moods on a dime depending on the gas percolating in his bowels or the threats on his person real and imagined. It’s a role rich in gristle and blood and Mr. Whitaker makes the most of it even if the performance and the film’s essential conception of Amin never push deep or hard enough. This actor can play devious as his brilliant turn in “The Color of Money” showed early in his career. But what you need in a film about a man who fed the corpses of his victims to the crocodiles is something more something hateful and vile." including a scene of very graphic believable-looking torture." successfully with women perilously with Amin and Mr. McAvoy expertly makes the character’s naïveté seem at first appealing then foolish and finally odious in the extreme. As a stand-in for all the white men who have unwisely and cravenly journeyed into the proverbial heart of darkness the character effectively serves his purposes and you shake your head tsk-tsk right on schedule." based on the novel by Giles Foden; director of photography Anthony Dod Mantle; edited by Justine Wright; music by Alex Heffes; production designer Michael Carlin; produced by Andrea Calderwood Lisa Bryer and Charles Steel; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 121 minutes." “The Last King of Scotland” is also a very contemporary pointedly resonant film about blowback. That said and despite some background filler Mr. Macdonald isn’t interested in furnishing history lessons and the details of Britain’s African adventures remain largely unstated. In 1888 much as it did throughout Africa and the world the British government gathered together dozens of different ethnic groups and various kingdoms under its control naming this new protectorate and commercial venture Uganda. Many pounds of profit later in 1962 Britain granted Uganda its independence; the African nation has been struggling to recover ever since." James McAvoy (Nicholas Garrigan) Kerry Washington (Kay Amin) Simon McBurney (Stone) Gillian Anderson (Sarah Merrit) and Adam Kotz (Dr. Merrit)." ” based on the novel by Giles Foden and directed by Kevin Macdonald creates a portrait of this famous Ugandan dictator from inside the palace walls. Furiously paced with excellent performances by Forest Whitaker as Amin and James McAvoy as the foolish Scotsman who becomes the leader’s personal physician the film has texture if not depth and enough intelligence to almost persuade you that it actually has something of note to say. It would make a terrific double bill with Barbet Schroeder’s mesmerizing 1974 documentary “General Idi Amin Dada: A Self Portrait ” of which Mr. Macdonald has obviously made a close and fruitful study." “The Last King of Scotland” uses a self-anointed outsider Nicholas Garrigan (Mr. McAvoy) as its initially empathic point of entry. Arriving in Uganda in the early 1970’s this young doctor evinces an understandable wide-eyed enthusiasm and wonderment at the sights and sounds around him. He’s alive to his exciting new world which the exceptional cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle who shot Danny Boyle’s “28 Days Later” and Lars von Trier’s recent films paints in deeply saturated color. The otherworldly Fauvist palette as well as the interludes of frenetic cutting at times recall the Brazilian art-house exploitation flick “City of God ” though Mr. Macdonald who has a background in documentary proves somewhat savvier about the politics of representation." well that’s entertainment." 
8022
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22slee.html
who sharpened his eye making commercials and music videos is a kindred spirit. He forgoes computerized special effects in favor of stop-motion animation and papier-mâché finding magical possibilities in homely materials and ordinary situations. Stephane’s job for instance is a familiar nightmare of daily drudgery with annoying colleagues (including the spectacularly obnoxious Guy played by Alain Chabat) but also a source of perpetual surprise and for the audience comic enchantment." Charlotte Gainsbourg (Stephanie) Alain Chabat (Guy) Miou-Miou (Christine Miroux) Emma de Caunes (Zoe) and Aurélia Petit (Martine)." beyond the control of reason. His vision of the unconscious however is remarkably benign. The dream world of “The Science of Sleep” is not haunted by primal sexual terror or constructed for purposes of social criticism the way Buñuel’s landscapes were. It has instead a wide-eyed picture-book quality an air of almost aggressive innocence." exotic birds exchanging tentative mating calls in their differently accented English (his tinged with Spanish hers an eerily perfect echo of her mother the British actress Jane Birkin)." an anxious young man named Stephane (Gael García Bernal) “The Science of Sleep” creates a world of intense peculiarity where time seems to move in loops and curlicues and where the basic axiom that a thing and its opposite can’t both be true seems not to apply." nudity and sexual situations." Stephane stumbles into a stop-and-go romance with Stephanie (Charlotte Gainsbourg) a skittish neighbor. Actually what happens is that her piano falls on him a bit of cartoon slapstick that Mr. Gondry stages with insouciant matter-of-factness. Stephane’s eye is first caught by Stephanie’s friend Zoe (Emma de Caunes) who is more conventionally pretty but lacks Stephanie’s charming strangeness. Still the initial confusion over the two women is not so easily dispelled and even before it begins Stephanie and Stephane’s relationship is shadowed by doubt jealousy and confusion." since the life that Mr. Gondry explores in a spirit at once rigorous and playful is the inner life of an eccentric somewhat troubled fellow. Filmed in not-especially-glamorous parts of Paris the film takes place in a zone where dreams wishes and fears mingle with and at times obliterate the literal facts of everyday existence." with a description that is no less accurate for seeming completely illogical. What I’m trying to say is that “The Science of Sleep ” for all its blithe disregard of the laws of physics film grammar and narrative coherence strikes me as perfectly realistic as authentic a slice of life as I’ve encountered on screen in quite some time." ” Michel Gondry’s beguiling new film is  so profoundly idiosyncratic and so confident in its oddity that any attempt to describe it is bound to be misleading. While points of comparison are available — to “Human Nature” and “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind ” Mr. Gondry’s collaborations with Charlie Kaufman; to early Surrealist artworks or the later films of Luis Buñuel — they don’t do much to illuminate the puzzling mostly delightful experience of watching “The Science of Sleep” unfold." the spell wears off. Not because the film’s inventiveness wanes but because its mood changes slowly but noticeably from eager enthrallment to desperation. The gray of daylight seeps in around the edges and Stephane’s dreams become less an escape from the frustrations of ordinary life than another potential source of disappointment. His childlike behavior especially around Stephanie begins to seem intemperate and regressive a petulant refusal to wake up into the rational adult world." an aspiring illustrator (whose mother has found him a job working for a calendar company) also tinkers with improbable gadgets like a one-second time machine made from a rewired old toy. For her part Stephanie fashions dioramas out of felt and old stuffed animals." therefore is both irrelevant and impossible. Which is not to say that the movie lacks a story only that like a dream the narrative moves sideways as well as forward revising and contradicting itself as it goes along. Mr. Gondry who would rather invent than explain makes a plausible case that a love story (which is what “The Science of Sleep” is) cannot really be told any other way. Love is too bound up with memories fantasies projections and misperceptions to conform to a conventional linear structure." French and Spanish with English subtitles) and directed by Michel Gondry; director of photography Jean-Louis Bompoint; edited by Juliette Welfling; music by Jean-Michel Bernard; production designers Pierre Pell and Stéphane Rozenbaum; produced by Georges Bermann; released by Warner Independent Pictures. Running time: 106 minutes." impish movie feeling a little blue:  sorry that it had to end and also wishing perhaps that it amounted to more. But its fugitive ephemeral quality is part of its point: dreams after all are hard to remember and perhaps don’t hold the meanings they seem to. Without them though our minds would be emptier and our lives much smaller. So while “The Science of Sleep” may not in the end be terribly deep it is undoubtedly — and deeply — refreshing." 
8023
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22jack.html
Dimitry Elyashkevich; edited by Seth Casriel Matthew Probst and Scott Simmons; produced by Mr. Tremaine Spike Jonze and Johnny Knoxville; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 92 minutes." ” the second feature-length collection of stunts pranks and self-inflicted trauma from Johnny Knoxville and his merry band of skate-punk yahoos. Much of what follows is too obscene to be described here; suffice to say that disreputable things are done with the ejaculate of a horse. It is also too exhilarating to spoil. Debased infantile and reckless in the extreme this compendium of body bravado and malfunction makes for some of the most fearless liberated and cathartic comedy in modern movies." it was called performance art. When Chris Pontius sheathes his penis in a cotton puppet dangles it in front of a live snake and then braces himself for the fangs while his buddies double over in glee it’s known as “Jackass.”" but you can’t argue with its purity of expression. At the root of the “Jackass” project is an impulse to deny the superego and approach the universe with all its hard edges and shark-infested waters as an enormous undifferentiated playpen. That and the impulse to watch a 400-pound woman belly-flop on top of a midget. The Surrealists would have loved these guys and relished the film’s signature image: the application of a leech to the surface of an eyeball." 
8024
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22camp.html
centering on abortion but not on homosexuality or other items. Because it focuses on the education of children Ms. Fischer speaks of the evils of Harry Potter. But there is no analysis of Biblical teaching nor mention of “end times” or  the rapture." shout weep and speak in tongues she contends the spirit is present." and she compares Kids on Fire to militant Palestinian training camps in the Middle East that instill an aggressive Islamist fundamentalism. The term war as in culture war is repeatedly invoked to describe the fighting spirit of a movement already embraced by 30 million Americans mostly in the heartland." attractive children when their hormones kick in and they venture beyond their sheltered home and church environments." a talk show personality for Air America. A self-professed Christian of the dead church variety he engages in a pointed but friendly debate with Ms. Fischer when she calls in to his show.  But the only moment of real tension occurs during a side trip to a megachurch in Colorado Springs where the preacher Ted Haggard president of the National Association of Evangelicals (and a Bush friend) turns to address the camera in a tone of suspicion and hostility. It is the movie’s only glimpse of the evangelical movement’s ugly vindictive side." Ms. Fischer makes no bones about her expectation that the growing evangelical movement in the United States will one day end the constitutional ban separating church and state. And as the movie explores her highly effective methods of mobilizing God’s army that expectation seems reasonable." “The Boys of Baraka ” followed a group of “at-risk” African-American boys from a decaying Baltimore middle school to an austere wilderness school in rural Kenya. Removed from a toxic urban environment they flourish until tribal conflict in the region forces the school to suspend operation." who wears his hair in a mullet is being groomed as a future evangelical preacher. Already exuding star quality he strides through a group of children waving his arms and mouthing dogma about how his generation is so important." Mao Zedong’s Red Guards turned the world’s most populous country inside out. Nowadays the possibility of a right-wing Christian American version of what happened in China no longer seems entirely far-fetched." in which the dominant values are commercial and the worldview is Darwinian in its amorality? Spread globally by television the least-common-denominator brand of “secular humanism”  — the evangelicals’ perceived enemy —  is indeed repugnant." ” declares Pastor Becky Fischer with jovial satisfaction in the riveting documentary “Jesus Camp.” Ms. Fischer an evangelical Christian helps run Kids on Fire a summer camp in Devils Lake N.D. that grooms children to be soldiers in “God’s army.”" the movie visits a church at which the congregation prays in front of a life-size cardboard cutout of President Bush. Justice Alito’s eventual approval is hailed as another step forward in the movement’s eventual goal of outlawing abortion the No. 1 issue on its agenda." 
8025
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22blac.html
journalists and regular voters Mr. Inaba begins by addressing the Florida debacle of 2000 arguing that behind the exhaustive coverage of hanging chads and faulty voting machines lies an underreported and more complex story of black disenfranchisement. In a strong middle section the movie examines the political troubles of Representative Cynthia McKinney a vocal critic of the Bush administration suggesting that her ouster in 2002 was engineered by Republican crossover voting. A particularly powerful segment shows how at least one of Ms. McKinney’s statements about the Sept. 11 attacks was edited by some commentators to appear infinitely less reasonable than the original." and in his furious documentary “American Blackout ” Ian Inaba assembles compelling evidence to support his claim that African-Americans — who are traditionally more likely to vote Democratic — are being deliberately and systematically excluded from the political process." the anger in “American Blackout” is palpable. As we listen to voters complain about roadblocks and false felony records and watch the endless lines of black voters standing patiently in the rain in Ohio it’s impossible to ignore the gravity of the film’s claims. Though occasionally inflammatory — one interviewee talks about being “slingshotted into slavery” — “American Blackout” isn’t a conspiracy rant. It’s a methodical compilation of questions and irregularities that deserves a wider audience." Jean-Philippe Boucicaut and Mr. Inaba; music by DJ Shadow Soulsavers Thievery Corporation Mark Batson and Michael Bearden; produced by Anastasia King. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 92 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8026
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22trai.html
“Train Man” is based on Hitori Nakano’s wildly popular novel and directed by Shosuke Murakami with touching tenderness. Though its appeal may be limited to the socially awkward the movie is unusually perceptive about the attractions of online communities while gently insisting on the superiority of flesh over fantasy. “Train Man” wants us to get off our computers and get out of the house; in a country as technocentric as Japan the suggestion that it may be time to replace the cyber with the real is not just subversive it’s downright revolutionary." this unashamedly heartstruck movie is neither obsessed with sex nor driven to humiliate its characters. Compared to those of the average American teen movie its ambitions are so innocent they’re almost childlike." the geek and the Internet “Train Man” follows the halting courtship of a 22-year-old nerd (Takayuki Yamada) and his subway crush (Miki Nakatani) after he rescues her from an inebriated businessman. Egged on by a Greek chorus of envious chat-room buddies — who wisely advise a total makeover — our hero learns that wooing a woman requires more than an in-depth knowledge of anime. Who knew?" Miki Nakatani (Hermes) Eita (Hirofumi the twister guy) Tae Kimura (Michiko the housewife) Ryoko Kuninaka (Rika the nurse) Hiroko Miyake (Tamura the businessman) Yoshinori Okada (Yoshiga Geek 1) Kuranosuke Sasaki (Hisashi Geek 2) and Makoto Sakamoto (Muto Geek 3)." with English subtitles) by Arisa Kaneko based on the book by Hitori Nakano; directors of photography Yoshihiro Katayama and Shigeki Murano; edited by Junosuke Hogaki; music by Takayuki Hattori with theme song by Orange Range; visual effects by Hirofumi Yoshikawa; art director Kazuo Yanagawa; produced by Yoshishige Shimatani Yoshikazu Seki Yoshiro Hosono and Yoshiro Yasunaga; released by Viz Pictures. At the Imaginasian Theater 239 East 59th Street Manhattan. Running time: 101 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8027
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22rena.html
credited to Marc Miance uses a computer technique known as motion capture and tilts away from live action to evoke the sharp linear style of a graphic novel. The absence of texture and shading in this two-tone palette has the unfortunate effect of robbing the characters of most of their facial expressions." Bislane (Catherine McCormack) to whom he develops a romantic attachment Karas uncovers a conspiracy involving a secret genetic experiment carried out in 2006 by Ilona’s mentor Jonas Muller (Mr. Holm). Although the experiment went tragically awry it yielded the secret of eternal life which Avalon now wants to possess." Ian Holm and Jonathan Pryce the story revolves around the search for Ilona Tasuiev (Romola Garai) a brilliant 22-year-old geneticist for Avalon who is kidnapped and imprisoned in a hologram. A dogged world-weary cop Karas (Mr. Craig) is assigned to the case." the Eiffel Tower still looms but many other familiar landmarks are buried under murky labyrinthine layers of architecture. Dominating the city is the Avalon Corporation a sinister technological giant that promotes itself with talking billboards on which a beautiful woman announces in ominously soothing tones the company’s dedication to “health beauty and longevity.”" “Without death life is meaningless ” but the phrase has little resonance in a film in which none of the characters come fully to life. As the movie might put it without birth life is meaningless." Catherine McCormack (Bislane Tasuiev) Romola Garai (Ilona Tasuiev) Ian Holm (Jonas Muller) and Jonathan Pryce (Paul Dellenbach)." Marc Miance; music by Nicholas Dodd; produced by Aton Soumache Alexis Vonarb and Roch Lener; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 105 minutes." dystopian world evoked by the French film “Renaissance” is a Gallic pastiche of “Blade Runner ” “Sin City ” “Minority Report” and “Gattaca ” the movie’s stark visual style is strikingly original. There are no grays only jagged blacks and whites in a film that draws the worlds of animation and live action closer together with a variation on the techniques used by Richard Linklater in “Waking Life” and “A Scanner Darkly.”" the brutal high contrast begins to strain the eyes. Effectively moody as it is the style makes a convoluted story of corporate greed high-tech espionage and science run amok even more difficult to follow.  This is a plot that goes on as many tangents and wild goose chases as  “The Big Sleep.”" 
8028
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22men.html
the governor’s muscle but these gestures of menace and foreboding seem as overdone as the leering glimpses of the showgirls with whom Willie sometimes consorts. And poor Mr. Law an actor of lively wit is once again asked to mope and maunder and occasionally purple up the soundtrack with sighing narration." not only because current sensibilities are unlikely to be shocked by misbehavior in high office (or out of it) but more seriously because Mr. Zaillian’s conception of politics is sentimental and unreal and his sense of history is ultimately that of a decorator not a storyteller. Impassioned oratory is a fine thing but Willie Stark knew that you had to get those roads and bridges built as well. Like an electioneering candidate —  which given the incipient Oscar race it is —   “All the King’s Men” makes a lot of promises but fails to deliver the goods." in Warren’s florid but nonetheless powerful telling to be a Greek tragedy of modern Democratic politics. In Mr. Zaillian’s velvet-wallpaper version neither the politics nor the family intrigue makes much sense. We hear much more than we see about both Willie’s grandeur and his ultimate monstrosity and never grasp the full dimensions of his personality in triumph or in disgrace." directed by Robert Rossen won three Oscars including best picture in 1950 — a welcome one since a screenwriter is free to omit them and concentrate on a sweaty sinewy tale of corrupted idealism and moral decay. It is not hard to see why Steve Zaillian whose writing credits include “Schindler’s List” and “Gangs of New York” and who directed “Searching for Bobby Fischer” and “A Civil Action ” was drawn to the material." Wayne Wahrman having labored mightily to strain and reduce Warren’s messy gumbo serve up a platter heaped with starchy indigestible lumps. A squad of blue-chip performers — including Sean Penn Jude Law Kate Winslet James Gandolfini Mark Ruffalo Anthony Hopkins and Patricia Clarkson — sweat handsomely in their Depression-era clothes illuminated by sunlight slanting exquisitely into dark-paneled rooms and smoky train compartments while James Horner’s score blasts significance into every corner of the frame." ” he bellows — but you never feel the galvanizing force of that essential connection or the ebullient showboating that is its authentic form of expression. Mr. Penn is in some ways too fine an actor to play a country ham like Willie Stark." fundamentally an antitheatrical naturalistic actor whose great gift is his ability to convey inwardness. His narrow face with its close-set eyes and thin mouth seems closed in on itself. Expansiveness does not come easily to him but Willie is the kind of populist leader who grows larger in public where he feeds on the anger and adoration of the people." Warren’s book a meaty stew of lurid Southern-gothic pulp and high-minded literariness seems to provide the recipe for a grand melodramatic prestige picture the kind that can both flatter and titillate the audience (and the Academy) while providing at least a half-dozen actors the opportunity to thunder strut pine and wail. Lust power greed betrayal family secrets dark sedans and crumbling plantation houses a tremor of illicit sex and a glimmer of political relevance:  “All the King’s Men” has it all." nearly every one of them grievously miscast. Ms. Winslet bathed in light or veiled in gauze looks nearly as dazed as Mr. Ruffalo. Mr. Penn stepping into one of Broderick Crawford’s great blowhard roles tries to reconnect Willie Stark a self-described “hick ” with his rustic origins emphasizing the character’s diffidence and low cunning as well as his strutting arrogance. What is missing though is the full Shakespearean measure of Willie’s charisma." Jude Law (Jack Burden) Kate Winslet (Anne Stanton) James Gandolfini (Tiny Duffy) Mark Ruffalo (Adam Stanton) Patricia Clarkson (Sadie Burke) Anthony Hopkins (Judge Irwin) and Jackie Earle Haley (Sugar Boy)." based on the novel by Robert Penn Warren; director of photography Pawel Edelman; edited by Wayne Wahrman; music by James Horner; production designer Patrizia von Brandenstein; produced by Mr. Zaillian Mike Medavoy Arnold W. Messer and Ken Lemberger; Michael Hausman David Thwaites James Carville Todd Phillips Andreas Schmid Andy Grosch and Ryan Kavanaugh executive producers; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 120  minutes." ” Robert Penn Warren’s Pulitzer Prize-winning 1946 novel about the rise and fall of a demagogic Southern governor may be a classic but it is far from perfect. Diamond-sharp political insights sink into pseudo-Faulknerian hoodoo; plots and subplots entangle like kudzu on a riverbank; and some of the keenest American prose ever written keeps close company with some of the gustiest. “How life is strange and changeful ” Warren’s narrator Jack Burden philosophizes at one point “and the crystal is in the steel at the point of fracture and the toad bears a jewel in his forehead and the meaning of moments passes like the breeze that scarcely ruffles the leaf of the willow.”" in which a crusader on behalf of the poor and marginal becomes a monster blighting the machinery of government with graft and vanity and turning public works into self-aggrandizing monuments. In the film (one of whose executive producers is James Carville) Willie originally modeled on the Louisiana governor and United States senator Huey P. Long shows a passing resemblance to more recent political figures from Bill Clinton to Lyndon B. Johnson to Hugo Chávez. He is a creature of high political intelligence unbridled appetite and a vengeful eagerness to humiliate his state’s traditional rulers. Louisiana’s oil and gas he declares belong to the people on whose behalf he builds highways bridges schools and hospitals. With him the era of big government is just beginning." its complicated narrative bogging down in lyrical voiceover long flashbacks and endless expository conversations between people speaking radically incompatible accents. Only Ms. Clarkson who really is from Louisiana and Jackie Earle Haley who utters few words manage to acquit themselves credibly." implied and actual violence and some hints of sexuality." a blandly dissolute former newspaperman with deep family connections to the old aristocracy. Jack’s involvement with the governor leads him back into his own past —  in particular to a moonlit night when he went swimming in the Gulf of Mexico with the luminous Anne Stanton (Ms. Winslet) while her moody brother Adam (Mr. Ruffalo) looked on — and also into conflict with the elderly judge (Mr. Hopkins) who was like a father to young Jack." 
8029
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22lone.html
San Angelo Tex. The film does get intriguing for a short stretch when it describes how the brothers essentially threw their father Enrique out of the band but Mr. Galán is more interested in platitudes than in letting the personalities of the three young men emerge. (And apparently they do have personalities: both Jo Jo and Ringo have had run-ins with the police in the last two years.)" the Texas trio made up of the brothers Henry Jo Jo and Ringo Garza long enough to feel genuine as is evident from the frequent appearances of Kevin Wommack the group’s manager." what you’re making is not so much a documentary as a prolonged promotional video." a Stevie Ray Vaughan merging of rock and blues that the brothers call “Texican rock ’n’ roll.”" Gustavo Aguilar; edited by Jose Flores; score by Joseph Julián González and David Murray; produced by Mr. Galán and Evelyn Ledesma Galán; released by Galán Inc. Television/Film. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 89 minutes. This film is not rated." because Hector Galán the filmmaker had a golden opportunity. He started following the band in 2002 when it was unknown and thus was there when the brothers broke through to win a Grammy Award in 2005 for the song “Heaven.” This should have been an exciting inside look at what happens when a band catches fire." 
8030
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22frie.html
Los Angeles Atlanta Miami and Philadelphia." Salvador Bolivar; edited by Doug Forbes; production designer Victor M. Medina; produced by Josselyn Herman-Saccio. Running time: 120 minutes. This film is not rated." this homegrown vanity project stars Patrick Nwamu Jr. a k a Punchin’ Pat a Nigerian-American cruiserweight boxing champion from the Bronx as himself (he also was co-writer of the script a continual flow of clichés)." Malik Yoba (Pat Black Sr.) Bruce Altman (Frank Gibbs) Thom Christopher (Rocky) Al Snow (Big Al) and Louis Vanaria (Anthony)." his later life is of course still history waiting to happen. His chronicles as they appear here — tedious uninspired and laden with unintentional chuckles many brought on by the supremely absurd references to the Lodge a Freemasonry association that Pat’s father belonged to — feel very unripe for the telling. It’s hard to imagine though that even in the right hands additional years of material could have made this all-too-familiar story any fresher." an interracial love story and a prison/mob drama devoid of suspense spark or grit the ambitiously genre-crossing yet disastrously executed “They’re Just My Friends” is hands down the most excruciatingly inept film to creep its way into theaters in some time." beginning with his tragic childhood and then flashing forward 15 years as he trains rises to relative fame flirts with romance runs with the wrong crowds (his “friends” of the title) and spends some time behind bars." 
8031
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22flyb.html
“Flyboys” is ever so nice in the manner of a Norman Rockwell illustration. The director Tony Bill may not be a philosopher but he is a gentleman moving things along with a tidy well-mannered hand. In another context such politesse might feel tonic. Given the state of things it’s nearly toxic." based on an original screenplay by Phil Sears and Blake Evans; director of photography Henry Braham; production designer Charles Wood; produced by Dean Devlin and Marc Frydman; released by MGM Studios. Running time: 129 minutes." “Flyboys” makes a soppy fantasy representing war with approximately the level of realism marshaled by “Team America: World Police.” Leading the puppet people is James Franco as Blaine Rawlings a cowboy with blond highlights who takes time off from killing to woo a French country girl (Jennifer Decker). Joining him are a blue blood (Tyler Labine) a black boxer (Abdul Salis) a screw-up (David Ellison) and Jean Reno as a French captain hamming it up like a supersized croque monsieur." this would be the First World War as experienced by the Lafayette Escadrille a pack of American boys who volunteered as Allied pilots before the United States entered the war. Under French command they flew against the Germans in wood and canvas contraptions about as well engineered as a love seat from Ikea." Jean Reno (Captain Thenault) Martin Henderson (Reed Cassidy) Jennifer Decker (Lucienne) David Ellison (Eddie Beagle) Tyler Labine (Briggs Lowry) Abdul Salis (Eugene Skinner) and Philip Winchester (William Jensen)." as a poet once said stupidity carried beyond a certain point becomes a public menace. “Flyboys” ascends close enough to this danger zone to singe its wings yearning for a time when wars were fought by gentlemen combat was glamorous and the French were amused by monolingual Americans." 
8032
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22fear.html
a veteran of Hong Kong cinema (“The Bride With White Hair”) who has taken unfortunate steps into Hollywood (“Freddy vs. Jason”) as well as sprightly ones (“Bride of Chucky”) “Fearless” sustains the tradition of ethically inflected Chinese action movies. Physical kinesis is inseparable from spiritual dynamism; the question is not whether Hou can beat everyone to a pulp but whether he can do so with proper discipline and honor." as he recently announced “Fearless” may come to be remembered as a late specimen in a different genre: the China-as-underdog flick. For the moment the notion of a Chinese freedom fighter defending the honor of his nation against a seven-foot Yankee muscleman named Hercules O’Brien (Nathan Jones) remains more or less credible. But tomorrow? Such narratives may lose their punch when China rules the universe." lyrical stretch of the picture is devoted to his spiritual rehabilitation (cue meditative farming montages) a resting of the muscles before they’re called back into service against the enemies of Tianjin. Naturally Act 3 largely consists of Mr. Li meting Tumbling Fist Eagle Claw Boxing and Righteous Indignation against multiple opponents." Nakamura Shidou (Anno Tanaka) Sun Li (Moon) and Dong Yong (Nong Jinsun)." with English subtitles) by Chris Chow and Christine To; director of photography Poon Hang Sang; edited by Virginia Katz and Richard Learoyd; music by Shigero Umebayashi; production designer Kenneth Mak; action choreography by Yuen Wo Ping; produced by Mr. Yu Bill Kong and Jet Li; released by Rogue Pictures. Running time: 105 minutes." as imagined through state-of-the-art production values (the film keeps one eye on old-school chopsocky and the other on new-school superproductions) “Fearless” breaks into three neat acts each of them charmingly anachronistic. In the first the legendary martial artist Huo Yuanjia (Mr. Li) aspires to be the champion of Tianjin street fighting. His hubris however leads to retaliation from a rival and a tragic turn of events sends Huo into self- imposed exile in the country." 
8033
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22deca.html
consuming old movies — even bad ones — was probably the closest we may have come to experiencing life in a particular time and place." ” Pat O’Neill’s luminous Hollywood ghost story the notion of a thriving avant-garde cinema might not be so intimidating to the moviegoing public." ruined citadel housing a million dark secrets. Against the speeded-up color photography in which clouds race above the building and shadows creep up and down the facade the ghosts move at normal speed caught up in their individual dramas oblivious to time. But occasionally the tempos are reversed especially in scenes of the Ambassador staff tearing around the bowels of the hotel like frenzied hyperactive little robots." “The Decay of Fiction” sustains a mood of almost gothic sadness. Actors dressed in period garb from the 1930’s 40’s and 50’s filmed in black-and-white and double exposed against color sequences of the hotel appear and vanish like ghosts in fractured vignettes that never quite cohere into stories." a once-grand Los Angeles hotel that went spectacularly to seed after closing in 1989. The Ambassador was the site of some of the early Academy Awards ceremonies in the 1930’s and of the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy. But instead of concentrating on that public history the film uses the building emptied of its furnishings to imagine its mythical shadow history and its status as a metaphor for old Hollywood in all its fabulous glamour and corruption." including a blond siren and a pair of detectives tend to be film noir and gangster movie archetypes spouting enigmatic nuggets of hard-boiled dialogue lifted from vintage Hollywood films." 2002. This unrated film opens today at the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village." 
8034
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/22/movies/22blos.html
with unabashed swish an effeminate boy named Maxi (Nathan Lopez). Flamboyantly gay in both senses of the word Maxi plays sister mother maid and cook for a close-knit clan of petty crooks (Soliman Cruz as the father Neil Ryan Sese and Ping Medina as the older brothers). Their unorthodox family values are shaken up after Maxi harassed by some local goons is rescued by a handsome police officer (J R Valentin as Victor) and promptly tumbles head over heels in puppy love." “Maximo” has charmed film festival audiences from Sundance to Jerusalem with its refreshingly blasé handling of homosexuality its amiable actors and its delicacy of milieu. Credit above all the talented Mr. Lopez whose effortless charisma buoys the movie even when it goes heavy with contrivance." Soliman Cruz (Paco) J R Valentin (Victor) Neil Ryan Sese (Boy) Ping Medina (Bogs) and Bodjie Pascua (Police Chief)." with English subtitles) by Michiko Yamamoto; director of photography Nap Jamir; edited by Kanakan Balintagos and Clang Sison; music by Pepe Smith with Love Theme by Mike Villegas and Bayang Barrios; production designers Christina Dy Clint Catalan and Lily Esquillon; produced by Raymond Lee; released by Unico Entertainment. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 100 minutes. This film is not rated." “The Blossoming of Maximo Oliveros” swiftly establishes a tone of lyrical squalor. Set in the slums of Manila it opens with a peppy tune and a jig of impressions: flowers adrift on rivers of slime filthy sidewalks sparkling with good cheer thieves making chitchat with happy neighbors." 
8035
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/21/movies/21hard.html
the Sex Pistols the Clash and the Ramones are barely mentioned. Despite passing references to the Beastie Boys and the Red Hot Chili Peppers those who came after are only glancingly acknowledged. Maybe that’s for the best since the way the movie tells it hardcore was its own thing defiantly glowering in a corner by itself." from a screenplay by Steven Blush based on his book “American Hardcore: A Tribal History ” the film which is filled with grainy archival clips of hardcore performances is a toned-down cinematic equivalent of the music: fast and loud but not too loud. The movie scrambles to cover so much territory that there is room only for musical shards and slivers; few complete songs are heard and no signature anthems stand out. These excerpts are spliced with pungent bits and pieces from dozens of interviews the whole crisply edited into a rapid-fire history. If 9 out of 10 bands are groups almost no one ever heard of the movie’s encyclopedic concept is touchingly thorough." based on his book “American Hardcore: A Tribal History”; director of photography Mr. Rachman; produced by Mr. Blush and Mr. Rachman; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 98 minutes." it moves from Los Angeles to Boston then up and down the East Coast with trips back west and a quick jaunt to Canada. Leading the roster are Bad Brains referred to in tones of reverence and Black Flag whose tattooed hunk of a lead singer Henry Rollins became the closest thing to a star minted by hardcore." from disco to the dilution of first-generation punk labeled new wave to of course the same high-flying and deeply loathed bands like the Eagles Fleetwood Mac and Journey that the original punks also despised. Hardcore was more than noncommercial; it was anticommercial. No one in the movement made more than spare change and many lived hand to mouth. Poverty was synonymous with purism." ” a documentary chronicle of the hardcore punk movement that flourished outside the rock mainstream through the first half of the 1980’s imagines that this underground culture which flamed out in 1986 was more than a new generation’s style of hormonal eruption. To many of the musicians who fondly remember the wild old days when the bands and their audiences melted into a delirious mass of flailing diving bodies it had to mean something more than just letting off steam. And maybe it did." which sprouted an informal network of local bands around the country was a spontaneous expression of disgust by an alienated fringe with the ascendance of Ronald Reagan along with all things preppy. The movie names Southern California as the site of hardcore’s birth and regards New York as a latecomer to the party." harmonically minimal rock as hard loud and fast as cheap guitars could play it made by young musicians wanting to blow up the world with noise and attitude." only Kira Roessler the bassist for Black Flag actually played in a band. And she remembers an offensive Black Flag album cover that forced her to question her role. It really was a guy thing." now middle-aged speak for themselves. As nostalgic as they are for their lost bohemia of fury and dissent they acknowledge that the hardcore lifestyle has a very short shelf life. But political change also counted; the Reagan re-election landslide is remembered as the final demoralizing blow." 
8036
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/20/movies/20joy.html
and how we use the past to take refuge from the present. You can’t go home again; sometimes you can’t even share a bowl of pot the way you once did. Yet if Mark and Kurt’s excursion resembles any number of classic adventures across time and space the film is also insistently about this specific moment in time and space. Namely an America in which progressive radio (actually snippets from Air America) delivers the relentless grind of bad news that Mark can only listen to without comment and with a face locked in worry a face on which Ms. Reichardt invites us to project the shell shock despair and hopelessness of everyone else listening in across the country." and untold numbers of words will have been spilled about the same handful of serviceable or perhaps even brilliant films of the sort that dominate the discourse every fall. Odds are that none of those contenders will capture the tenor of these difficult times with more sensitivity or greater attention to beauty than Kelly Reichardt’s “Old Joy ” a triumph of modesty and of seriousness that also happens to be one of the finest American films of the year." “River of Grass” (1995) about a young woman who dreams of escaping her dreary life by going on the lam “Old Joy” briefly borrows the conventions of the road movie while keeping its romance safely at bay. Quintessentially if not exclusively American the road movie often involves a flight to freedom however illusory the freedom and truncated the trip. In “River of Grass” the woman ends her journey on a congested freeway another gerbil spinning her wheels. Her desire for something more some transcendence out of her ordinary existence gives “River of Grass” a bittersweet tang. Ten years later and Ms. Reichardt has little sweetness left for “Old Joy.”" Kurt tells Mark a meandering story that begins with a trip to a store to buy a notebook and ends with a scene from a dream. In his dream a woman gives Kurt a hug and tells him that “sorrow is nothing but worn-out joy.” It’s a sentiment  befitting  Wordsworth whose description of  poetry as “the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings: it takes its origin from emotion recollected in tranquillity” finds perfect cinematic expression in a stunningly moving close-up of Mark’s open surprised and now-joyful face as he listens to Kurt. It’s uncertain how much of Kurt’s charming story Mark really hears but for a few moments he seems liberated by it and the man sharing it." which is why this trip isn’t the bummer it might seem. Ms. Reichardt answers the deep current of sorrow that runs through the film and the lingering sense of regret that hangs over the men with one pristinely framed image after another. Working with her cinematographer Peter Sillen she offers up a world of enchantments that along with Kurt’s fumbling confessions of friendship create a counter-narrative to despair. Garbage mars the woods but here too there are canopies of soaring trees and a luxuriously unhurried slug. The deeper the men walk into the forest accompanied only by Mark’s dog the more they recede into the surrounding green until they become part of the larger picture not its centerpiece." based on the short story by Mr. Raymond; director of photography Peter Sillen; music by Yo La Tengo performed with Smokey Hormel; produced by Neil Kopp Lars Knudsen Jay Van Hoy and Anish Savjani; released by Kino International. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 76 minutes. This film is not rated." who wrote the screenplay with Ms. Reichardt the film tracks two old friends Mark (Daniel London) and Kurt (Will Oldham) as they drive out of Portland Ore. one day and into a strained reunion. As Mark who’s about to become a father drives and Kurt keeps the pot pipe going they talk about old times burning up memories and miles. They lose their way the sun sinks they set up camp. The next morning they hike deep into the woods where they find the professed reason for their getaway a natural hot spring. There amid the bubbling water and gentle whirs and hums of the forest one of the friends struggles to recover something that had gone lost namely a sense of the other." Daniel London (Mark) and Tanya Smith (Tanya)." and Mark and Kurt’s brings the friends almost full circle back to the same city street where they met up. It’s an unceremonious parting absent any of the warmth that surfaced during their hot-spring idyll. From the way Kurt looks at Mark it seems clear he knows there won’t be another reunion. From the way Mark automatically switches on the car radio and its drone (“the uncertainty about  the future”) it’s just as evident that only one traveler went anywhere. Joy wears out naturally for some people; others  use it up. That Ms. Reichardt chooses to end her film with an image of Kurt out in the streets and alive to the world suggests that he hasn’t given up on it and neither has she." 
8037
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/20/movies/20solo.html
but then perhaps Pedro Almodóvar is the only filmmaker able to mix darkness and light in that way. Still it is hard not to admire the younger man’s cheeky self-confidence and hard not to enjoy the dexterity of his camera movements and the flair with which he attempts both low comedy and high melodrama." feeling spurned and neglected plays a cruel prank on Tomás altering blood test results to suggest that he is H.I.V.-positive. This leads to some anguished soul-searching and also rather improbably to a madcap chase that ends on the observation deck of the Latin American Tower Mexico City’s answer to the Empire State Building." the movie has the breezy insouciance of a classic bedroom farce. But the lighthearted mood is disrupted by the possibility of true love — incarnated in a new neighbor (Claudia Ramírez) who lives between Tomás and Mateo and who has a fiancé — and also by the specter of death." with English subtitles) by Alfonso Cuarón and Carlos Cuarón; director of photography Emmanuel Lubezki; edited by Alfonso Cuarón and Luis Patlán; music by Carlos Warman and  Mozart; production designer Brigitte Broch; released by IFC First Take. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 93 minutes. This film is not rated." his first feature 15 years ago before departing Mexico for Hollywood and making “A Little Princess” and “Great Expectations ” returning home for “Y Tu Mamá También” and then coming back to direct “Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.”" Claudia Ramírez (Clarisa) Luis de Icaza (Mateo) Astrid Hadad (Teresa) Dobrina Liubomirova (Silvia) and Isabel Benet (Gloria)." but there is something gratifying about witnessing such talent in its fledgling state." ” “Sólo Con Tu Pareja” — literally “Only With Your Partner” — is a rambunctious sex comedy shadowed by mortality. Tomás is hardly a smooth-talking lady-killer; rather he uses a combination of boyish sweetness and neurotic puppylike eagerness as his main tools of seduction. He is a little too successful enticing a nurse (Dobrina Liubomirova) into his bed while his randy boss Gloria (Isabel Benet) is waiting for him across the hall. Tomás has lured her into the apartment he has borrowed from a friend Mateo (Luis de Icaza)." a young man living alone in a roomy Mexico City apartment with a tedious job writing advertising copy and a hyperactive romantic life. Apparently and perhaps not quite plausibly irresistible to women he is also unable to resist them which is believable enough since the women in this movie favor garter belts half-slips and other kinds of retro-sexy lingerie which they seem happy to display or to remove in Tomás’s presence." and the movies themselves show remarkable exuberance and versatility. All of which partly justifies the belated release (simultaneously in theaters and on DVD) of “Sólo Con Tu Pareja ” a lively calling card from a young ambitious director working with limited funds and a screenplay he wrote with his brother Carlos." 
8038
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/20/movies/20home.html
” Jeffrey M. Togman’s marvelously revealing documentary about the psychology of poverty two women reach out to each other from opposite sides of the socioeconomic divide." subjective way (Mr. Togman interacts with Ms. Farmer throughout the movie and is clearly a confidant) “Home” brilliantly illuminates the invisible damage inflicted by years of deprivation. When survival hinges on trusting no one but yourself the kindness of strangers can seem too good to be true." a community activist who gave up a lucrative career in the fashion industry to help poor families realize their dream of home ownership. The other is Sheree Farmer an exhausted single working mother rearing six children in a gang-infested neighborhood in Newark. With Ms. Abernathy as facilitator a nonprofit corporation is offering Ms. Farmer the opportunity to buy a new home in a safe area at a bargain price. All Ms. Farmer has to do is clear up three items on her credit record. Simple right?" Pierre Defendini and Keith Hargreaves; edited by Mollie Goldstein; produced by Mr. Togman and Mr. Defendini; released by Kikker Arts LLC. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 78 minutes. This film is not rated." no. As Ms. Farmer negotiates with her creditors works a full-time job and clashes disastrously with her 14-year-old daughter the complexity of the documentary sneaks up on you. Ms. Farmer’s difficulties are real but they’re also solvable; and with the closing deadline approaching Ms. Abernathy — a cancer survivor unintimidated either by street thugs or her client’s mounting obstacles — begins to realize that something else is behind Ms. Farmer’s inability to fulfill her obligations." 
8039
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/16/movies/16arti.html
drug and alcohol abuse and nudity." who is best known from “Mad TV” and as Howard Stern’s radio sidekick leads one of those teams a bunch of slow-pitch sloths who play halfheartedly and often half drunk. A slimy egomaniac named Manganelli (Anthony De Sando) leads the Lange team’s archrivals and when the two squads get into their usual fight early in the season the police chief lays down the law: whichever team wins the league this season can stay; the loser has to disband or find some other town to play in." that has not a shred of social entertainment or even curiosity value. But it misses out on this dubious honor by having one tiny redeeming attribute: it answers the question “Whatever happened to Edgar Stiles?”" like the impending marriage of one player which provides the excuse for a bachelor party full of topless women. Mary Birdsong as a waitress named Rhonda is amusing but no one else is thanks largely to the writing by Mr. Lange and Frank Sebastiano whose idea of a good running joke includes herpes not to mention mental retardation." or at least the actor who played him Louis Lombardi turns up briefly here as a police chief. Alas the Chief Formerly Known as Edgar does not do himself proud: he imposes the conditions on two brawling softball teams that allow this wretched movie to continue for another hour. If only he had called in Kiefer Sutherland and had him break the neck of everyone involved." New Jersey Cleveland and Philadelphia." David Phillips; edited by Peter Fandetti; music by B C Smith; production designer Kelly McGehee; produced by Mr. Lange and Anthony Mastromauro; released by Echo Bridge Entertainment." Ralph Macchio (Maz) Anthony De Sando (Manganelli) Cara Buono (Linda) Jimmy Palumbo (Johnny) and Joe Lo Truglio (Dave)." set in New Jersey makes the Garden State beer-league softball bachelor parties and even sex seem much less fun than they actually are. Sure it’s a deliberately lowbrow movie but even the lowest brows like to have their intelligence flattered now and again." 
8040
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15vajr.html
its seduction proves so intense that they scarcely need go there to conjure its glory as evidenced by Martin Scorsese’s exquisite “Kundun ” shot largely in Morocco. Not that location work in Lhasa is much of an option unless your production celebrates the ardor of all Tibetans to be occupied by Mother China and their boundless joy to be rid of that pesky Dalai Lama. “Vajra Sky Over Tibet” demonstrates one alternative for moviemaking inside Tibet: the rhetorically inflated vacation video. Directed by John Bush a disciple of Tibetan Buddhism this documentary restricts itself almost exclusively to tourist attractions: landscapes temples monasteries sculptures frescos opera festivals religious pilgrimages pretty flowers cute kids. Wonderments all these things are seldom seen and nice to look at though once you’ve seen five prayer wheels you’ve pretty much seen them all. The movie will show you five more." 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 89 minutes. This film is not rated." in a commentary voiced under the influence of deep spiritual serenity or perhaps Valium we hear of Tibetan religious purity and Chinese colonial treachery. We learn nothing of the people themselves in part from necessity (Mr. Bush wished to protect them from reprisal) in part from the creative limitations of an awestruck Westerner with good intentions but marginal artistry." 
8041
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15trut.html
Patricia Foulkrod’s film “The Ground Truth” stands out as an especially pointed indictment of the American military’s treatment of its own people on and off the battlefield." ” which was made in association with several antiwar veterans organizations including Iraq Veterans Against the War tries to do too much in too little time. It would be a stronger film if it devoted more detailed attention to the plight of the returning veteran. As it stands it is a scattershot antiwar polemic that doesn’t bolster its arguments with any historical perspective or statistical evidence. No one from the government or the military is trotted out to give an opposing view." Reuben Aaronson; edited by Rob Hall; music by Dave Hodge; released by Focus Features. In Manhattan at the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 80 minutes." ” on its own terms isn’t devastating. There’s nothing sadder than to hear a disabled disillusioned soldier his life in ruins wondering what he was fighting for." Calif. to a Marine Corps boot camp to the killing fields of Iraq to the home front. The scenes in which recruits are regaled with promises of the benefits of service without any mention of killing aren’t all that surprising. How could a volunteer wartime army be mustered any other way? But there is a difference between misleading advertising and outright lying. One National Guardsman dispatched to Iraq recalls being promised that he would never see combat." once instilled can’t be reversed as easily as turning off a faucet." ” in which personalities are broken down and reconstructed through systematic humiliation deprivation and depersonalization." “We don’t treat ‘conscientious objectors ’ ” after he voiced his anguish at having killed innocent civilians. These collected stories portray the Defense Department and the Veterans Administration as understaffed underfinanced agencies responding with a shocking indifference to the needs of those who have served honorably." who went to Iraq for the thrill of combat recalls his personal turning point: when he killed an Iraqi woman who was approaching his tank only to discover afterward that she was clutching a white flag. Another tells of being screamed at by an Iraqi civilian carrying his brother’s head which had just been blown off." 
8042
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15mum.html
” Maggie Smith her tongue digging a hole in her cheek is Grace Hawkins a seemingly angelic old lady who materializes almost Mary Poppins-like in the English village of Little Wallop population 57. No sooner has she begun working as a housekeeper for the local vicar’s troubled family than she sets about solving their problems large and small." based on a story by Mr. Russo; director of photography Gavin Finney; edited by Robin Sales; music by Dickon Hinchliffe; production designer Crispian Sallis; produced by Julia Palau and Matthew Payne; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 90 minutes." which sets his juices flowing. Suddenly Walter and Gloria are all over each other. Grace also introduces Walter to an ecclesiastical joke that leads him to pepper his sermons with religious humor gleaned from an Internet site and his jokes make him the star of a clerical convention." Kristin Scott Thomas (Gloria Goodfellow) Dame Maggie Smith (Grace Hawkins) Patrick Swayze (Lance) Tamsin Egerton (Holly Goodfellow) Toby Parkes (Petey Goodfellow) Emilia Fox (Rosie Jones) and Liz Smith (Mrs. Parker)." ” directed by Niall Johnson doesn’t pretend to have anything to do with reality. Except for the glaringly overwrought performance of Mr. Swayze it is as determinedly British and old-fashioned as an Agatha Christie mystery consumed with cucumber sandwiches and a spot of tea." pedaling furiously and try to stop their brakes fail. Earlier we have seen Grace wielding shears and wearing a secret smile." Walter Goodfellow (Rowan Atkinson) has grown too pious by half and his marriage to his beautiful wife Gloria (Kristin Scott Thomas) is withering from lack of attention. Sexually frustrated she is considering an invitation from her sleazy American golf teacher Lance (Patrick Swayze) to run away with him to Australia. Meanwhile the couple’s boy-crazy daughter Holly (Tamsin Egerton) is on the verge of running wild and their adolescent son Petey (Toby Parkes) is the target of school bullies." if I remember correctly) ends up serving the murder weapon (a leg of lamb) to the police." set four decades earlier the young Grace (Emilia Fox) is shown aboard a train on which her enormous trunk begins leaking blood in the baggage compartment. Approached by the police she proudly confesses to having killed and chopped up the bodies of her unfaithful husband and his mistress and is sent to a prison for the criminally insane. Newly discharged after four decades she appears in Little Wallop toting the same trunk." 
8043
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15lenn.html
even 26 years after his death Lennon  is a lively enough presence to keep the sentimentality somewhat in check. A great songwriter and a nimble exploiter of his own celebrity he was also a pretty terrific television talk show guest:  witty engaged and passionate about his beliefs without being pompous about it." and their combination of humor and guilelessness still has the power to disarm." and they raised an interesting question of tactics in an age of mass media. Can famous people just by doing odd things or singing beautiful songs compel attention to important issues?" ” a new talking-head and archival-video documentary better suited for VH1 (which helped to produce it) than for the big screen makes the case that in just about every way that counted Lennon was a better person than Richard M. Nixon." beyond restating the notion which can neither be proven nor dismissed that musicians and artists can change the world. They can also it is clear drive presidents and other people in power crazy in part because the impact of popular culture can be so hard to measure or to predict." decades later about Lennon’s involvement with the antiwar movement in the late 1960’s and early 70’s. It is for example odd to see New Left stalwarts like Angela Davis and Tariq Ali gustily proclaiming Lennon’s radical commitment accompanied by the strains of “Revolution ” his highly ambivalent explicitly critical assessment of the fashionable militancy of the time." a University of California history professor who has written extensively about Lennon’s run-ins with the F.B.I. and the Nixon administration. Several operatives assigned to investigate Lennon — some repentant some like the eventual Watergate jailbird G. Gordon Liddy decidedly not — recount their versions of the case which culminated in the government’s attempt to rescind Lennon’s visa and send him back to Britain." and they are perhaps difficult to recall now as the era and its passions have become encrusted with hazy mythology. When it is not burnishing the myths and checking in with Noam Chomsky Gore Vidal and Bobby Seale “The U.S. vs. John Lennon ” which was written and directed by David Leaf and John Scheinfeld does engage in some interesting historical spadework." but it could hardly prevent the Republican landslide of 1972. Nixon may have overreacted wildly in believing that singers and movie stars could pose a threat to his legitimacy but his paranoia was probably based on the sense that he could not compete with their influence and prestige. On the evidence of this movie Nixon was right." and also smoking large quantities of it ” he says. The wisdom that comes with age has now convinced him that “you probably shouldn’t be doing both things at once if you want to do either one well.” Good advice." and one of the best-known cultural figures of the past half-century leaves the movie with little to do but add its sometimes sanctimonious voice to the chorus of praise and admiration." the film offers its clearest window on the past. The view also takes in some of the era’s characteristic excesses and oddities as well as its pieties and unexamined assumptions. John Sinclair who became a cause célèbre and the subject of a Lennon protest song after he was imprisoned for giving marijuana to an undercover officer shows up to offer some wry hindsight." produced and directed by David Leaf and John Scheinfeld; director of photography James Mathers; edited by Peter S. Lynch II; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 99 minutes." 
8044
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15kiss.html
such arrested development has been a theme in movies for even longer." Michael (Zach Braff) has a nice job a lovely newly pregnant girlfriend named Jenna (Jacinda Barrett) and a squad of loyal buddies. When he complains that he feels as if  he’s “in crisis” as his 20’s near their end he sounds precociously middle-age. At the same time though he behaves less like a man for whom adulthood is already a burden than like a child for whom maturity is a scary and seductive abstraction." sexual situations and strong language." restless counterpoint so that “The Last Kiss” sometimes feels like an entire season of a television series crammed into less than two hours full of activity but lacking shape. Michael’s emotional predicament also unfolds alongside a crisis in the marriage of Jenna’s parents as her mother (Blythe Danner) tires of her cold sarcastic mate (Mr. Wilkinson) and tries vainly to reconnect with an old flame (Harold Ramis)." and after a while the movie starts to feel thin and threadbare. Ms. Barrett is a glowing lovely presence but her character exists in the penumbra of Michael’s narcissism and the filmmakers seem not to have much interest in her beyond her almost symbolic function as the embodiment of domesticity and incipient motherhood. We never learn the subject of her dissertation and we also don’t understand what she sees in Michael." based on  “L’Ultimo Bacio” a film written by Gabriele Muccino; director of photography Tom Stern; edited by Lisa Zeno Churgin; music by Michael Penn; production designer Dan Leigh; produced by Tom Rosenberg Gary Lucchesi Andre Lamal and Marcus Viscidi; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 104 minutes." another friend Izzy (Michael Weston) is still miserably stuck on the long-time girlfriend who dumped him while Kenny (Eric Christian Olsen) the heedless stud of the bunch finds sexual fulfillment —  strenuous but meaningless —  with a woman he picked up at the same wedding at which  Michael met Kim." ” directed by Mr. Goldwyn (“A Walk on the Moon”) from a script by the estimable Paul Haggis (“Crash ” “Million Dollar Baby”) inherits from its source a crowded glib story. But it also unusually for an American remake of a European original preserves the earlier film’s candor about human behavior. Most major-studio releases treat romantic love  with cynical coarsening prurience or with an equally cynical sentimentality —  sometimes both as was the case with “Wedding Crashers” last summer." Tom Wilkinson playing Michael’s would-be father-in-law a professional therapist offers mild reproof and fatherly advice during the movie’s explosive climax. There are perfectly sound dramatic reasons for his reserve and in any case it is consistent with the movie’s gentle tolerant view of its characters a perspective that proves to be  a limitation and something of a surprise." Jacinda Barrett (Jenna) Casey Affleck (Chris) Rachel Bilson (Kim) Michael Weston (Izzy) Blythe Danner (Anna) Tom Wilkinson (Stephen) and Eric Christian Olsen (Kenny)." ” Tony Goldwyn’s remake of a popular Italian film from 2001 belongs to a venerable tradition that can be traced through “Diner” and “American Graffiti ” all the way back to another Italian movie “I Vitelloni.” In that great 1953 film directed by Federico Fellini a group of young men chased girls and evaded responsibility until the father of one of them lost patience and went after his son with a belt. While I can’t condone the brutality of his methods I couldn’t help but wish that a similarly no-nonsense patriarchal figure would show up and whip some sense into Mr. Braff and his pals." or is it the new 12? This is one of the questions implicitly raised by “The Last Kiss ” which is not so much a coming-of-age story as it is yet another story about how hard it is these days to act your age." by contrast seems to be playing a grown woman which makes her  a more sympathetic character and also given the film’s skewed allegiances a less interesting one. Jenna’s role is to save Michael from his worst impulses and Ms. Barrett very nearly saves “The Last Kiss” as well by giving full voice to the rage hurt and humiliation that follow Michael’s betrayal. In the end though you can’t shake the feeling that Michael deserved worse and she deserved better — than him and than this earnest confused movie." I guess. His wobbly chin and startled eyes might be taken for evidence of sweetness and he is certainly a credible incarnation  of the kind of mopey wet-noodle hipster lately ubiquitous in independent movies unsigned rock bands and certain Brooklyn neighborhoods. But the challenge of conveying both Michael’s weakness and his decency —  the qualities that lead him astray and those that make him worthy of forgiveness —  seems entirely beyond him." Michael meets Kim (Rachel Bilson) a cute skinny college student who seems to be attracted to him and without quite meaning to —  but also without stopping himself —  he pushes their flirtation into something more dangerous. Scared by impending fatherhood he is also worried that settling down with Jenna will drain all the surprise from his life. He observes his friend and co-worker Chris (Casey Affleck) as the pressures of parenthood cause his already fragile marriage to buckle." ” in which Jennifer Aniston and Vince Vaughan did just what the title promised would have been a more notable exception if it were anything like a good movie. “The Last Kiss ” while not quite a good movie either at least deserves credit for its honesty." 
8045
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15hero.html
along with Colin Brady and Dan St. Pierre while Dana Reeve provided the voice of Yankee’s mother) “Everyone’s Hero” enters multiplexes already shadowed by tragedy. And while that may not be the best start for a kiddie feature the movie’s sentimental provenance could earn it a critical pass it doesn’t deserve." ” the connection between human and volleyball was clearly understood." “Everyone’s Hero” is the uninspired tale of Yankee Irving (Jake T. Austin) a 10-year-old baseball fanatic who finds himself in possession of Babe Ruth’s stolen bat Darlin’ (a trash-talking Whoopi Goldberg). Accompanied by a wiseacre baseball named Screwie (Rob Reiner) Yankee travels from New York to Chicago and the 1932 World Series where the Babe is striking out more often than Mel Gibson at a bat mitzvah. Soon Yankee has saved the Babe’s reputation restored his father’s custodial job and persuaded Whoopi Goldberg to stop talking. Not even a ghostly Patrick Swayze managed that." Daniel St. Pierre and Colin Brady; written by Robert Kurtz and Jeff Hand based on a story by Howard Jonas; director of photography Jan Carlee; music by John Debney; produced by Ron Tippe and Igor Khait; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 88 minutes. This film is rated G." Rob Reiner (Screwie) Raven-Symoné (Marti) Dana Reeve (Yankee’s mother) Jake T. Austin (Yankee Irving) Mandy Patinkin (Yankee’s father) and Whoopi Goldberg (Darlin’)." 
8046
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15have.html
Michael Bernard; edited by Peter Christelis and Lisa Fruchtman; music by Heitor Pereira; production designer Damien Byrne; produced by Bob Yari and Robbie Brenner; released by Yari Film Group. Running time: 98 minutes." ” an even phonier exercise in manufactured conflict facile irony and preposterous contrivance. The story begins with an American businessman (Bill Paxton) who betrayed by a British financier (Stephen Dillane) flees to the Cayman Islands with his daughter (Agnes Bruckner). Enter Fritz (Victor Rasuk) a local delinquent along with all manner of trouble (greed racism colonialism acid flung in the face) not least of which is a violently arbitrary rupture in the plot." drugs cursing and violence." Agnes Bruckner (Pippa Ridley) Joy Bryant (Sheila) Stephen Dillane (Mr. Allen) Anthony Mackie (Hammer) Bill Paxton (Carl Ridley) Victor Rasuk (Fritz) Zoë Saldana (Andrea) and Robert Wisdom (Andrea’s father)." looping back and forth through time and space in a flailing attempt at nonlinear poetic frisson. Achieving instead only convoluted nonsense Mr. Flowers stirs up a combustible blend of social ills and sub-Shakespearean passions doses it with overburdened metaphor and stands back as it blows up in his face." so to speak to Shy (Orlando Bloom) an introspective fisherman whose love for a local girl (Zoë Saldana) breeds trouble with her family (Anthony Mackie and Robert Wisdom). If by this point the writer and director Frank E. Flowers has not convinced you of his subtle genius note that Shy mans a boat named Destiny." 
8047
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15grid.html
“Gridiron Gang” gains significant momentum from Jeff Cutter’s amped-up photography most notably on the gridiron itself. But the movie’s good intentions are consistently undermined by its simplistic notion of redemption and its inspirational thrust is diluted by an epilogue that suggests the program still has a ways to go in the life-altering department." based on the documentary film; director of photography Jeff Cutter; edited by Joel Negron; music by Trevor Rabin; production designer Floyd Albee; produced by Neal H. Moritz and Lee Stanley; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 120 minutes." the Rock (Sean Porter) Xzibit (Malcolm Moore) Kevin Dunn (Ted Dexter) Leon Rippy (Paul Higa) Jade Yorker (Willie Weathers) and Trever O’Brien (Kenny Bates)." ” based on Lee Stanley’s 1993 documentary of the same name is a sports-as-rehab movie that wants to have its lawlessness and cure it too. Seething with violence — domestic street and institutional — the movie jumps from heartwarming to murderous without ever convincing us that all these guys need is a coach who cares. They may have learned there’s no “I” in team but breaking an opponent’s face is still in the playbook; and when a local Christian school agrees to a game you know that Christians haven’t been in this much peril since ancient Rome." brawls on the football field and swearing just about everywhere." there’s not a lot for inmates to do besides eat sleep and beat up rival gang members. So when Sean Porter (Dwayne Johnson a k a the Rock) a probation officer and former delinquent decides to form a football team teaching the kids sportsmanship is the least of his problems. First they have to learn how to spell their team name." 
8048
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15dahl.html
who puts some Katharine Hepburn into her voice and just as much conviction into the rest of her performance delivers the goods. Her character a rich brat out of Raymond Chandler by way of Mr. Ellroy (think “The Big Sleep ” but creepier) lives with her whack-job family in one of those mansions that serves as a tomb for its inhabitants and a monument to their ambitions. There’s a stuffed doggie in the foyer (a casualty of Daddy’s unfortunate enthusiasms) fleets of silent servants in the dining room and the pervasive stench of rot. Mr. De Palma obviously enjoys hanging out with this decadent brood whose demons read as symptomatic of the city it calls home and whose pathologies prove nuttily entertaining." there are tantalizing glimpses of another film interpretation in the short scenes featuring Betty Short. During the investigation some audition reels turn up with her trying out for a role. As Ms. Kirshner wearing torn stockings and streaked mascara reads for the part looking into the camera with her spooky clear eyes you see need and desperation and why a frightened young woman with no resources beyond her looks might have relied on a body whose very vulnerability would finally betray her. Every so often an off-screen male voice asks Betty a question needling and provoking her until she crawls toward the camera like a sacrifice." based on the novel by James Ellroy; director of photography Vilmos Zsigmond; edited by Bill Pankow; music by Mark Isham; production designer Dante Ferretti; produced by Art Linson Avi Lerner Moshe Diamant and Rudy Cohen; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 119 minutes." preferably hell. A master of modern horror Mr. De Palma has a flair for the frenzy of violence specifically when visited on the female body which  makes him seem an ideal fit for this spectacularly cruel crime. At their finest his films are marvels of virtuosity alive to the  contradictory at times disreputable pleasures of the movies. Blood runs through his work but so does juicy life. In “The Black Dahlia ” though that life has been drained from the filmmaking much as the blood was drained from the victim’s body." and in the key of pop than when trying his hand at heavy reality as he did in the lugubrious Vietnam drama “Casualties of War.” Reality weighs similarly heavy on “The Black Dahlia.” Betty Short was a real woman who was slowly and brutally tortured to death and whose killer tried to dehumanize her by turning her into an object.  Her story may have the makings of great pulp fiction but there is nothing playfully cinematic or campy about it." Scarlett Johansson (Kay Lake) Aaron Eckhart (Lee Blanchard) Hilary Swank (Madeleine Linscott) Mia Kirshner (Elizabeth Short) Mike Starr (Russ Millard) and Fiona Shaw (Ramona Linscott)." or at least an idea of her only briefly in “The Black Dahlia.” Like the James Ellroy novel on which the film is based the story mostly turns on the violent ups and downs of two detectives hot on the case Bucky Bleichert (Josh Hartnett) and Lee Blanchard (Aaron Eckhart). In the boxing ring where they mix it up on behalf of their superiors the men are called Mr. Ice and Mr. Fire respectively for their wildly different temperaments. (Given the performances Mr. Droopy and Mr. Hammy would be more fitting.) When not chasing leads Bucky and Lee like to play house with Lee’s girlfriend Kay (Scarlett Johansson) a plush blonde with a throaty laugh and battle scars." 1947 a housewife pushing a baby carriage saw what she thought was a store mannequin lying in a weedy lot in South Los Angeles. This waxy white shape was the neatly severed body of a 22-year-old woman named Elizabeth Short. Betty as she was often called had moved from Massachusetts to Southern California to look for work and to meet her absent father. What she found was nice weather and lots of men who were probably hoping for more than a smile in exchange for a hot meal. She was restless and broke and wore her hair and clothes black which is how she earned her nickname. It was the kind of moniker that later looked particularly striking emblazoned in newspaper headlines." ” a series of pulpy page-turners that begin in the early 1940’s and end more than a decade later his “Black Dahlia” is dedicated to his mother Geneva. He was just 10 in 1958 when she was murdered and her body dumped like that of Betty Short by the side of the road as if it were garbage. His mother’s unsolved murder haunted him and it led to an early obsessive interest in Betty Short. Like the other books in the quartet including “L. A. Confidential ”  made into a 1997 film by Curtis Hanson “The Black Dahlia” hurtles along propelled by that obsession and by rage. There’s craziness in this book: it feels as if it were  written by a man possessed." Mr. De Palma is ill at ease when he spends time with most anyone else. His best work here which notably involves none of the principals is a fantastic shot that moves up from street level to peer over the roof of a building where some crows are ominously cawing. Behind the building on the next block a woman with a carriage pauses to look at something in a lot before breaking into a shrieking run. This is bravura filmmaking reminiscent of some of Mr. De Palma’s other grand flourishes in that you are both aware of the image’s self-conscious artificiality (you can almost feel the director hovering nearby) and captive to its emotional impact." Mr. De Palma of course." but there’s little craziness in this restrained awkward film. With the diverting exception of Hilary Swank who plays a slinky degenerate named Madeleine Linscott the leads are disastrous. Ms. Johansson and Mr. Eckhart are actors who need as much help from their directors as they can get the kind of help  that Mr. De Palma as the uneven performances in his films indicate cannot always provide. Mr. Eckhart flails about mistaking volume for passion and inviting regrettable comparison to Russell Crowe running amok in “L. A. Confidential.” Ms. Johansson tries to fashion her character by flourishing a cigarette holder; Mr. Hartnett who provides the narration flounders on the shallows of his interpretation." 
8049
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15conf.html
at the end of which the leaves are shed has no maniacal spark. “Confetti” ultimately lacks nerve and imagination." Archie (Vincent Franklin) and Gregory (Jason Watkins) a pair of dowdy hyperemotional gay fussbudgets who like to dress identically and who take their work with utmost gravity. In the frantic days before the contest each has a meltdown." but most contribute little in the way of fun. One happy exception is Matt’s best man Snoopy (Marc Wootton) a hostile rock ’n’ roller whose notion of an original wedding anthem is a nasty profane putdown of a girlfriend. (He eventually settles on a rock version of “Cheek to Cheek.”)" which has two or three laugh-out-loud moments at best you long for the American crew’s X-ray vision. “Confetti” lacks Mr. Guest and his company’s shared understanding that each person is a miniature comic planet with its own quirky climate whirling in its own eccentric orbit." Michael (Robert Webb) and Joanna (Olivia Colman) are dedicated nudists first glimpsed riding bicycles in the buff with other tubs of unclothed flesh. The selection of their “naturist” wedding for the contest doesn’t make sense in view of the magazine’s refusal to put nudity on its cover." Dewald Aukema; edited by Nicky Ager; music by Paul Englishby; production designer Chris Roope; produced by Ian Flooks and Ian Benson; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 94 minutes." Los Angeles and San Francisco." a fading tennis pro and his Canadian fiancée Isabelle (Meredith MacNeill) contrive a tennis-theme wedding with dancing ball boys and a referee for a preacher. Grimly competitive with a streak of paranoia Josef is prepared to cry foul if another couple wins." the movie gives each a few comic tics and leaves it at that. The first couple we meet Matt (Martin Freeman) and Sam (Jessica Stevenson) are tone-deaf sweethearts fixated on the idea of singing their I do’s in a ceremony staged as a Busby Berkeley-style Hollywood musical." Jessica Stevenson (Sam Whiston) Stephen Mangan (Josef Worrall) Meredith MacNeill (Isabelle Fontaine) Robert Webb (Michael Collier) Olivia Colman (Joanna Roberts) Marc Wootton (Snoopy) Vincent Franklin (Archie) and Jason Watkins (Gregory)." “Confetti” is obviously inspired by Christopher Guest’s “Best in Show ” in which Mr. Guest and his brilliant repertory company turned a dog show into an incisive satirical microcosm of everything wonderful and weird about American pet owners." personalized nuptials will appreciate the comic potential of the British mock documentary “Confetti.” The title is also the name of the movie’s fictional bridal magazine whose editors dream up a contest in which three pairs of panting exhibitionists aided by wedding planners compete to win an award for most original wedding concept. The winning couple will be featured on the magazine’s cover and given an ugly expensive new house in which to try living happily ever after." 
8050
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15chec.html
based on the play by Allen Swift; director of photography Matthew Jensen; edited by Edward R. Abroms; music by Nicolas Pike; production designer Elizabeth A. Scott; produced by Mark S. Lane and Jon Karas; released by Allumination FilmWorks and Fully Attired Group. Running time: 95 minutes." “Checking Out” is more sitcom-ready Jewish than a weekend in the Catskills circa 1950. Based on a 1976 play by Allen Swift the movie revolves around 90-year-old Morris Applebaum (Peter Falk) a retired Shakespearean actor for whom every moment even his death is a performance. In response to a letter he has sent advertising his imminent suicide Morris’s grown children converge on his luxurious New York apartment dragging their emotional baggage and a repertory of corny one-liners with them." Laura San Giacomo (Flo Applebaum) David Paymer (Ted Applebaum) Judge Reinhold (Barry Apple) Jeffrey Sams (Dr. Sheldon Henning) Shera Danese (Rhonda Apple) Mary Elizabeth Winstead (Lisa Apple) and Dan Byrd (Jason Apple)." cane and red velvet capelet he delivers every line to an imaginary balcony and makes Morris’s audience his own. But by the time the curtain falls the only people likely to be verklempt will be those who paid for tickets." a therapist can’t sustain a marriage; Barry (Judge Reinhold) a BMW dealer has earned his father’s wrath for shortening his name to Apple and selling “Nazi cars.” Only Laura San Giacomo as Morris’s lonely daughter Flo transcends the staginess of the premise and the creakiness of Richard Marcus’s screenplay to deliver a performance that feels remotely natural." 
8051
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/15/movies/15auro.html
Donald Sutherland (Ronald Shorter) Juliette Lewis (Kate) and Louise Fletcher (Ruth Shorter)." Alar Kivilo; edited by Richard Nord; music by Mychael Danna; production designer Taavo Soodor; produced by Scott Disharoon and Rick Bieber; released by Regent Releasing. Running time: 110 minutes." a boring damaged apathetic 20-something whose major claim on our attention is the type of bathetic cuddliness perfected by wet puppies and Mark Ruffalo. The fixation of independent movies on the arrested development of bourgeois dullards may have less to do with the relevance of the topic than the class of people who get to make movies. Whatever the case James Burke directs from a screenplay by Brent Boyd." in her capacity as the lead singer of a rock band she has mastered the art of crowd surfing in a bikini but “Aurora Borealis” hints at an untapped talent for playing mature textured women. Kate is spry avid generous and autonomous. You don’t doubt her galvanic effect on Duncan; you only wonder why she and this film care about him in the first place." a ready-made metaphor for (groan shiver) the chill in Duncan’s heart the movie tells how life warms up when he goes to work at a nursing home. He takes the gig because hey why not and also so the filmmakers can place him in proximity to his crusty grandfather (Donald Sutherland). But the spark comes from connecting with Kate a free-spirited nurse played with live-wire attention by Juliette Lewis." 
8052
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/13/movies/13spok.html
” Al Franken says in the new documentary that bears both his name and God’s. The occasion for this observation is a party given by Newsweek around the time of the 2004 Republican National Convention at which Mr. Franken hobnobs rather awkwardly with other well-known people who dwell mainly to his right on the political spectrum. (Henry A. Kissinger is there and so is Alan K. Simpson former Republican senator from Wyoming.)" and also to crack a few jokes but not really enough to present his arguments. Those can be found in his books or on his radio show." he ponders the etiquette of gloating and then keeps going when the occasion for gloating evaporates. He encounters Ann Coulter Sean Hannity and Michael Medved. Like him they never seem to get tired or to waver in their convictions. Which is probably what separates them as ideological celebrities from the rest of us." anyone who shares Bill O’Reilly’s  view (cited in the film) that Mr. Franken is “a vile human being” is unlikely to want to spend 90 cinéma vérité minutes in his company while those who think (to quote the title of Mr. Franken’s first polemical best seller) that “Rush Limbaugh is a big fat idiot” will be more inclined to buy a ticket." Mr. Doob and Ms. Hegedus; produced by Rebecca Marshall and Frazer Pennebaker; D. A. Pennebaker executive producer; released by Balcony Releasing. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." since the film observes Mr. Franken closely without generating much insight into him. Like many other comedians he seems to be performing constantly. And like many other comedians he is evidently angry though he is driven not by psychic torment but by moral fury at the Republican Party and the conservative news media." box-office appeal media exposure and so on — are in many ways more alike than different whatever their views on the issues of the day. But it is also the case that Mr. Franken like his principal adversaries (some appear in the film) represents a relatively new and rapidly proliferating species: the ideological celebrity hero to partisans and anathema to foes who reaps money and renown throwing red (or as the case may be blue) meat to true believers." the movie follows him through an eventful passage in this second career taking in a period that includes the rocky beginnings of the Air America Radio network the 2004 conventions and that year’s presidential election. Mr. Franken hustles from one event to the next pausing to rest his aching back to wink at the camera and to banter with his wife Franni." and in the things a public figure does on his way onstage and off. In this it is true to its pedigree. Ms. Hegedus was a co-director on both “The War Room” (with D. A. Pennebaker her husband and an executive producer of this film) and “Startup.com” (with Jehane Noujaim who went on to make “Control Room”). These documentaries are part of a tradition of fly-on-the-wall behind-the-scenes films about well-known figures or public events going back at least to Mr. Pennebaker’s 1967 Bob Dylan documentary “Don’t Look Back.”" though it does include some old “Saturday Night Live” clips and a visit by Mr. Franken to the house in Minnesota where he spent his childhood." it does not answer the most interesting question about him which is how he went from being a writer stand-up performer and sketch comedy fixture to being a liberal scourge best-selling fact checker radio host and possible contender for his old friend Paul Wellstone’s seat in the United States Senate." ” directed by Chris Hegedus and Nick Doob is perhaps best viewed as an investigation of the phenomenon of ideological celebrity with Mr. Franken as a willing case study. But to the extent that the ferocious polarization of which his fame is a symptom extends into the moviegoing public the film is more likely to attract or repel viewers according to the sides they’ve already chosen." 
8053
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/09/movies/09cove.html
Pierre Gill; edited by Nicolas de Toth; music by tomandandy; production designer Anne Pritchard; produced by Tom Rosenberg and Gary Lucchesi; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 97 minutes." at least?”" and they go to this creepy school and there’s this new kid  —  Sebastian Stan —  who’s like the bad witch and they fight and stuff. It’s super lame.”" what’s up? I tried calling you last night.”" Sebastian Stan (Chase Collins) Laura Ramsey (Sarah Wenham) Taylor Kitsch (Pogue Parry) Toby Hemingway (Reid Garwin) Jessica Lucas (Kate Tunney) Chace Crawford (Tyler Sims) and Wendy Crewson (Evelyn Danvers)." right?”" Caleb  — Steven Strait —  has like these big lips and sexy eyes and he drives a Mustang and everything. And he’s friends with this crazy like blond dude who looks kind of gay and this motorcycle guy with long hair and some other guy. Actually the whole thing is kind of gay. I mean they’re on the swim team right? And there’s this scene where they’re all in Speedos and everything.”" where these spiders crawl all over this girl and go in her nose and stuff.”" that’s pretty much the coolest part. The effects are super cheesy. Like at the end when Caleb is fighting the evil transfer student they fly around a barn and throw magic Jell-O at each other. I’m totally serious.”" 
8054
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/08/movies/08prof.html
military personnel journalists former Abu Ghraib prisoners and former employees of the companies in question present a litany of shocking accusations from private interrogators working without supervision or accountability to outsourced food services that allow Halliburton to charge soldiers $45 for a six-pack of soda. The movie also addresses the effect of private-sector soldiers on military retention and morale: Why work for $3 000 a month when you can earn six figures with a corporation?" Nick Higgins; edited by Carla Gutierrez and Sally Rubin; music by Tree Adams; produced by Mr. Greenwald Jim Gilliam Devin Smith and Sarah Feeley; released by Brave New Films. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 75 minutes. This film is not rated." including Wal-Mart Fox News and the Bush administration. He wants to rile us up and he’s not subtle. But then neither are his targets." ” Mr. Greenwald compiles a horrifying catalog of greed corruption and incompetence among private contractors in Iraq focusing primarily on Halliburton Blackwater Security Consulting and CACI International. Leading off with the infamous torture and murder of four Blackwater employees in Falluja in 2004 — men whose families contend were callously placed in harm’s way — the movie goes on to trace connections between the contractors and the Republican Party assert the buying of influence and explore what it says are questionable accounting systems that encourage exorbitant waste of taxpayer money. And that’s just the first 30 minutes." liberal outrage and emotional manipulation (like his colleague Michael Moore Mr. Greenwald knows the visual power of a grieving mother) “Iraq for Sale” has an us-versus-them sensibility that’s extremely effective. “Their greed goes against our grain ” says one disgusted interviewee. Indeed." 
8055
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/08/movies/08cart.html
directed and edited by Ramin Bahrani; director of photography Michael Simmonds; music by Peyman Yazdanian; art director Charles Dafler; produced by Mr. Bahrani Pradip Ghosh and Bedford T. Bentley III; released by Films Philos. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 87 minutes. This film is not rated." for $8 apiece or two for $15. (The movie quickly lures you into its desperate nickel-and-dime mind-set.)" the sparseness mostly complements the film’s vision of a confined existence eked out in the shadows of skyscrapers. Refusing to give Ahmad’s struggle a rainbow’s end the movie is true to the myth. It allows a single devastating blow reminiscent of the end of De Sica’s “Bicycle Thief ” to dash Ahmad’s expectations of salvation leaving him no other choice but to keep rolling that rock uphill." who can be brusquely condescending gives Ahmad work painting and fixing up his new apartment and gets him a short-lived evening job taking tickets at a nightclub. He even lends him $500 to complete the $5 000 first installment on his cart which will ultimately cost him $15 000." bleak film no less gripping to know that it was in fact partly inspired by “The Myth of Sisyphus ” Albert Camus’s treatise on the absurdity of existence. The movie sparingly dishes out the details of Ahmad’s life leaving many questions unanswered. We learn that his wife died a year earlier (there is a brief awkward flashback to happier days) but not how she died. Because Ahmad can’t afford a large enough place his 6-year-old son (Hassan Razvi) is living with his in-laws. Ahmad’s angry mother-in-law (Razia Mujahid) blames him for her daughter’s death and tries to keep his son from him." Leticia Dolera (Noemi) Charles Daniel Sandoval (Mohammad) Ali Reza (Manish) Farooq Mohammad (Duke) Upendran K. Panicker (Noori) Razia Mujahid (Mother-in-Law) and Hassan Razvi (Ahmad’s Son)." lonely existence is brightened by three events. He forms a friendship with Noemi (Leticia Dolera) a pretty young Spanish woman from Barcelona who temporarily runs her uncle’s newsstand and the relationship develops a romantic undertow. He is also taken up by Mohammad (Charles Daniel Sandoval) a successful Pakistani businessman who recognizes “the Bono of Lahore ” as he hyperbolically calls Ahmad and offers to help restart his musical career." and images of the illuminated spire of the Chrysler Building spearing the night sky and of tree branches crusted with tiny white lights evoke the city’s crushing indifference. In the scenes filmed in daylight it is often raining." “Man Push Cart” is an exemplary work of independent filmmaking carried out on a shoestring. Mr. Razvi’s convincing performance is a muted portrait of desolation bordering on despair; only once does Ahmad lose his composure and lash out." Ahmad finds a stray kitten and impulsively brings it home. But as tenderly as he feels toward his pet which becomes a surrogate for his son he has little idea of how to care for it. He gives it milk instead of water and doesn’t have it use a litter box." the Pakistani immigrant who is the protagonist of Ramin Bahrani’s “Man Push Cart ” goes through a Sisyphean daily grind. In the wee small hours of each morning he commutes by subway from his shabby one-room apartment in Brooklyn to Midtown Manhattan where he sells coffee doughnuts and bagels on the street. Lugging his portable propane tank he stocks his stainless-steel cart then pushes it through traffic to his station on a corner of  Avenue of the Americas." 
8056
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/08/movies/08trus.html
in any case believes mightily in his protégé and lends his time and celebrity to the cause of promoting Mr. DeLuca. Mr. Sutherland unloads equipment outside a London nightclub on a freezing-cold day and hands out free tickets on the streets of Dublin (and inside a few of the city’s pubs). “Are you somebody famous?” one Dubliner asks. “Well I’m working as an actor now ” he coyly replies." and Mr. Sutherland stays up late drinking and carousing at one point flinging himself into a Christmas tree in the lobby of a London hotel. At the end we learn that the Burden later relieved him of his duties as tour manager sending him back to his day job of pretending to save the world from terrorism." François Buren and Jerome Blois; edited by Jennifer Tiexiera and Erin Nordstrom; music by Rocco DeLuca and the Burden; produced by Pliny Porter and Matthew R. Brady; released by First Independent Pictures. At  Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 88 minutes. This film is not rated." logging lonely hours of rehearsal and traipsing from one club date to the next in search of the big break. Not many of them however have famous actors serving as their tour managers roadies and record-label bosses. That Rocco DeLuca and the Burden are attached in these ways and more to Kiefer Sutherland — son of Donald and star of “24” — may not be their only claim to distinction but it is the only discernible reason for the existence of “I Trust You to Kill Me ” Manu Boyer’s inconsequential documentary about the band’s brief first tour of Europe." “I Trust You to Kill Me” becomes less about Mr. DeLuca and more about his sponsor. Chronicling the ups and downs of the band gives way to charting Mr. Sutherland’s vaguely defined personal journey one that involves tattooing the song lyric that gives the film its title onto his forearm in Icelandic runes." whose wailing voice and anguished songwriting drives the Burden is an intense skinny 28-year-old who takes himself very seriously as an artist. His music is a bit droning and sludgy for my taste but his own taste in music —  John Lee Hooker Johnny Cash Appalachian murder ballads —  can hardly be argued with." 
8057
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/08/movies/08sher.html
Russell Lee Fine; edited by Curtiss Clayton and Joe Landauer; music by Jack Livesey; production designer Stephen Beatrice; produced by Marc Turtletaub and Lemore Syvan; released by IFC Films. Running time: 96 minutes. This film is not rated." Brad William Henke (Bobby Swanson) Giancarlo Esposito (Parole Officer Hernandez) Sam Bottoms (Bob Swanson Sr.) Bridget Barkan (Lynette Swanson) Ryan Simpkins (Alexis Parks) Kate Burton (Marcia Swanson) Rio Hackford (Andy Kelly) and Danny Trejo (Dean Walker)." and frequently thereafter “Sherrybaby” appears to fit comfortably into a familiar class of movies. The film written and directed by Laurie Collyer was shown at the Sundance Film Festival earlier this year and emerged from the affiliated Sundance Lab where the downbeat and the redemptive are mixed together according to a scientifically precise formula and shot on digital video." and some of the scenes in “Sherrybaby” have a familiar look and feel. But what distinguishes the film from its many peers is the quality of Ms. Collyer’s writing — which rarely reaches for obvious melodramatic beats — and the precision of Ms. Gyllenhaal’s performance. She  treats the character neither as a case study nor as an opportunity to show off her range but rather as a completely ordinary and therefore arrestingly complicated person." clutching the paper bag of her belongings she lets a smile play across her mouth a sign that incarceration has not erased her capacity for pleasure. Ms. Gyllenhaal’s long legs suggest a self-confidence that is subverted by the stoop of her shoulders a tall girl’s defense against unwanted attention." a longing that drives some of the film’s most delicate and emotionally risky scenes. Sherry whose relationship with her father (Sam Bottoms) has a creepy intimacy has a hard time behaving like an adult around Alexis; it’s almost as if when she’s with the little girl she wants to turn into her or to escape into a shared private world of innocent play. This puts her at odds with Lynette who she thinks with some justice is in competition with her for Alexis’s affection." she needs to tend to the mundane necessities of finding a job dealing with her parole officer (Giancarlo Esposito) and fighting the daily temptation to slip back into drug use." a middle-class suburban woman as well as an ex-convict tries to figure out who she is she finds some support from Dean (Danny Trejo) a fellow ex-convict and recovering addict who is both a link to Sherry’s past life and an example of successful liberation from it. Their relationship is tender ambiguous  and treated  —  by both actors and Ms. Collyer —  with tact and understatement which are the principal virtues of the movie and somewhat paradoxically the source of its cumulative intensity of feeling." a battered city street cigarette smoke rain — and the mopey acoustic-guitar-driven music foreshadow the story to follow. Sherry Swanson (Maggie Gyllenhaal) has just been released from prison after three years. A former heroin addict she must now grapple with the demons of addiction while trying to reconnect with her young daughter Alexis (Ryan Simpkins) now living with Sherry’s brother Bobby (Brad William Henke) and his wife Lynette (Bridget Barkan)." easily seducing the manager of the halfway house where she lives just after her release and coolly using her sexuality to secure the job assignment she wants (working in a day care center). But sometimes she looks as if she wants to curl up into a ball and disappear and the war between these impulses is at the heart of her drama which in the end involves her attempt to construct a workable identity for herself." 
8058
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/08/movies/08roll.html
hard-bitten rural culture — Texas without millionaires — in which men travel in packs on horseback and the residents of scattered farming villages live hand to mouth. The film never says what the grown-ups do for a living or feel about politics culture and religion." the film could be a companion piece to “The Motorcycle Diaries ” in which the young Che Guevara and his best friend also starting out from Buenos Aires traverse South America." organized by Emilia (Graciana Chironi) an 84-year-old grandmother invited to be the matron of honor at her niece’s wedding in Misiones her hometown near the Brazilian border. As the travelers face automotive crises marital strife and internecine sexual rivalries the trip is more of an endurance test than a holiday. But if your idea of fun is a just-folks  realism reminiscent of the HBO series “Family Bonds ” only far more pungent you will find much to treasure in “Rolling Family.”" “Rolling Family.” Watching this movie in which four generations of a clan from Buenos Aires cram into a mobile home and drive to  the other side of Argentina is like finding yourself stuck at a family reunion in the middle of nowhere. Without becoming intimate with any one person you come to know them collectively." “Rolling Family” voices an unspoken philosophy. Those things are extraneous to the meat and potatoes of life it suggests. This is how most people live getting along as best they can within the confines of the only institution that really matters." which appeared in The New York Times on Oct. 11 2004; the full text is online at nytimes.com/movies. The unrated film in Spanish with English subtitles opens today at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village." 
8059
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/08/movies/08prot.html
and the efforts of Kham (Tony Jaa) a provincial guardian to bust skulls and get it back. This is achieved through flabbergasting deployments of Muay Thai a martial arts discipline in which force is concentrated in the torso and released through the knees elbows and shoulders. The effect is scrappier than the traditional kung-fu movie moves with their balletic flurry of the extremities but the proletarian righteousness is pure classicism. Ditto the “whu-pssht!” thwack for each body blow." “The Protector” supersizes the formula of “Ong Bak ” his previous film starring Mr. Jaa’s muscles. The grimy street vibe of that picture in which our hero went muy Muay Thai on the folks who desecrated his village temple has been cleaned up by the producers who have budgeted for elephants explosions speedboats helicopters high-end Jacuzzis C.G.I. interludes and extreme sports montages." with English subtitles) by Napalee Piyaros Thongdee Joe Wannapin and Kongdej Jaturanrasmee based on a story by Mr. Pinkaew; director of photography Nuttawut Kittikun; music by the RZA; production designer Akadech Kaewkot; martial arts choreographers Tony Jaa and Panna Rittikrai; produced by Mr. Pinkaew and Sukanya Vongsthapat; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 84 minutes." Phetthai Wongkhamlao (Mark) Bongkod Kongmalai (Pla) Jin Xing (Madame Rose) Nathan B. Jones (T K) and JohnnyTri Nguyen (Johnny)." the Capoeira dude the bodybuilder the in-line skater wielding a fluorescent light bulb)." 
8060
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/08/movies/08lieu.html
where he tells his father that when he watched the coroner casually lay out a dead man’s organs all he could think of was Mozart. “How can all that stuff compose music?” If this question seems quintessentially perfectly French it also cuts to the existential heart of the best police procedurals: How can all this stuff create and destroy?" especially when after leaving the other cops at a bar she drags herself to a 12-step meeting where inspiration is in short supply." probably because he thinks it’s unanswerable. Instead he shows us men and women at home and at work mucking along as best they can. Every so often they make mistakes as one does here after a knife slices into one of the cops wounding all that “stuff” at which Antoine marveled. Despite an accretion of anxious moments and Caroline’s sorrowful past nothing in the deliberately low-key first hour prepares you for this eruption of violence or its emotional impact which pushes the story deeper than Mr. Beauvois can finally handle. The last scene of a lonely walk on a beach has a whiff of calculation though perhaps it’s simply an admission that some stories like some lives don’t resolve. They just end." as it will: a homeless man lands facedown in the Seine and not long after a professor almost meets the same fate. Caroline and the rest of the unit follow the meager clues rousting drunks off park benches for leads. Sober only two years Caroline commandeers the all-male team with brisk authority that grows more energetic as the case evolves. Mr. Beauvois almost casually suggests that the misery of others inspires cops as much as it drags them down; otherwise they’re just staring at the phone." and like a lot of French films it is keenly involved with the everyday pulse of work. Antoine’s introduction to police work turns out to be disappointingly pedestrian. He encounters a riotous drunk and listens as a victim testifies about a robbery but mostly he waits and watches as do we. Xavier Beauvois who directed the film from a screenplay he wrote with a handful of others believes in the power of an observational camera and in letting scenes play out quietly. Many of the best moments in “Le Petit Lieutenant” involve Antoine and the other detectives waiting for something to happen or observing the coroner as he neatly carves up a cadaver." with English subtitles) by Mr. Beauvois Guillaume Bréaud Jean-Eric Troubat and Cédric Anger; director of photography Caroline Champetier; edited by Martine Giordano; produced by Why Not Productions; released by Cinema Guild. Running time: 110 minutes. This film is not rated." Jalil Lespert (Antoine Derouere) Roschdy Zem (Solo) Antoine Chappey (Louis Mallet) Xavier Beauvois (Nicolas Morbe) and Jacques Perrin (Clermont)." satisfying French film “Le Petit Lieutenant” is an austere drama of the sort that rarely makes it to American screens except on cable television. The title character a young man from the provinces Antoine (Jalil Lespert) graduates from the police academy and eagerly makes his way to Paris. There assigned to the busiest precinct in the city he learns the ropes and meets the hard cases he calls his colleagues including the newly sober alcoholic who runs the criminal unit Caroline Vaudieu (Nathalie Baye). As in the HBO series “The Wire ” the cops hit the streets drink eat talk and then talk some more (they are French) and slowly steadily open their veins." the other cops start to notice that Caroline seems partial to Antoine who laughs off the idea. He has a pretty much younger schoolteacher wife (Bérangére Allaux) waiting for him back home in the country. Antoine also has a sensitive mind which in a way becomes another of the film’s steadily revealed mysteries." 
8061
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/08/movies/08holl.html
though the film implies that he was edited out of “From Here to Eternity” because audiences were distracted by Superman trading lines with the star Burt Lancaster. Yet Mr. Reeves is still in the picture and he’s fine. As a gossipy off-duty soldier in a Hawaiian shirt he gets the job done. And then he ambles off leaving the rest of the film to those who could manage it better." and Mr. Affleck is more than up to the task. When the actor first eases up to Toni sweet and softly talking he makes you see what a woman like her might see in him besides a good time. Buzzing with life he has yet to fall prey to self-pity and Toni draws on his youth and his optimism as if from a deep well. Later as defeat takes its grinding toll Mr. Affleck lets weariness creep into his face pulling his features down until it becomes difficult smile. Mr. Reeves’s career shrinks his silhouette bloats; the pounds turn his body into dough and then into lead." at least on “Superman ” could seem impatient almost irritable. As it happens all those times Clark Kent took Jimmy Olsen to task it might have been Mr. Reeves who was expressing his own discontent. That at any rate is how the world turns in “Hollywoodland.”" much less marquee billing: he was a would-be star in a town full of extras with superior luck looks and talent. In the late 1930’s when he appeared in “Gone With the Wind ” he was pretty if not pretty enough to break ranks. As the years passed and the pounds and disappointment mounted the prettiness disappeared as did the opportunities." but not every sob story or even every suicide has the makings of a tragedy. Even the filmmakers don’t seem especially convinced on this count since half of “Hollywoodland” involves a dead-end pseudo-noir about another hustler a private eye named Louis Simo whom Adrien Brody fails to shape into a character of interest despite much aggressive eyebrow raising. Hired to investigate the Reeves death Simo subsequently enters on a journey that distractingly toggles between his life and that of the dead man and involves feeling and healing fathers and sons and an occasional knuckle sandwich. In time Simo learns about facing the life you have rather than the life you want which may be grand advice in therapy but doesn’t make for involving drama." Mr. Reeves is best remembered if at all for two things: playing Superman on TV and a bullet in the head. In 1959 someone blew his brains out in a house tucked between Sunset Boulevard and Mulholland Drive. The death was ruled a suicide but the movies love a tasty murder which is why Ben Affleck has packed on the pounds slipped on some tights and given this exasperating film far more than it gives in return." if only on TV object lessons about hungry hopefuls who went looking for fame and found nothing or maybe just a little something." partial nudity gun violence." Diane Lane (Toni Mannix) Ben Affleck (George Reeves) Bob Hoskins (Edgar Mannix) Lois Smith (Helen Bessolo) and Robin Tunney (Leonore Lemmon)." one of them reasonably well. Before he became a cautionary tale about making it in the movies Mr. Reeves was a smoothie with brilliantine hair as slick as his pickup lines. In the early 1950’s he was hustling hard hitting auditions while the sun was up and cruising the nightclub scene after dark. He was trying to build on his decent roles in forgettable films and negligible parts in memorable ones including a bit as an eager young caller who worships at Scarlett O’Hara’s feet in “Gone With the Wind.” Even now if you didn’t know Mr. Reeves from “The Adventures of Superman” you might not notice him next to Vivien Leigh and David O. Selznick’s expensive sets which of course was the problem." far richer Toni Mannix (Diane Lane) a Hollywood wife made vulnerable if not yet humble by age. A former actress of no note she was married to the MGM executive Edward J. Mannix played by Bob Hoskins perhaps accurately as a thug in a front-office suit. Mr. and Mrs. Hollywood with his-and-her paramours to go with the other servants the couple was powerful enough to take their playmates out on a double date. Pets yukking it up with their masters at the dinner table is an ideal setup for the director Allen Coulter who until now has only worked on a small canvas directing for television." Jonathan Freeman; edited by Michael Berenbaum; music by Marcelo Zarvos; production designer Leslie McDonald; produced by Glenn Williamson; released by Focus Features. Running time: 126 minutes." 
8062
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/08/movies/08door.html
lightweight movie written and directed by Georgia Lee turns the malaises of a suburban family into bittersweet farce that teeters between cheeky humor and surface pathos." she leads a hip-hop dance troupe in school and to her parents’ annoyance pumps rap into her ears at the dinner table. Those dinners are traditional Chinese meals passed around on a Lazy Susan." the eldest is the dutiful high achiever. A successful businesswoman she is engaged to be married to Mark (Jayce Bartok) an Ivy League yuppie whom the movie unabashedly despises. Samantha still carries a torch for her old boyfriend Alex (Rossif Sutherland) a drippy singer-songwriter with patches of facial hair who regards her with a moist cow-eyed longing." this teenage caricature of the Asian woman warrior with American junk culture in her blood is given a warning by school authorities." whose color is supposed to bring good luck) loses its nerve and wraps up its interlocking family crises in a cozy blanket of reassurance." Zeus Morand; edited by Youna Kwak; music by Robert Miller; production designer Angelique Clark; produced by Jane Chen Ms. Lee and Mia Riverton; released by Polychrome Pictures. Running time: 90 minutes. WITH: Jacqueline Kim (Samantha Wong) Elaine Kao (Julie Wong) Tzi Ma (Ed Wong) Kathy Shao-Lin Lee (Katie Wong) Freda Foh Shen (May-Li Wong) Rossif Sutherland (Alex) Mia Riverton (Mia Scarlett) Jayce Bartok (Mark) and Sebastian Stan (Simon)." ” the oceanic divide between generations in a Chinese-American family is epitomized by the relationship of its glum paterfamilias Ed Wong (Tzi Ma) and Katie (Kathy Shao-Lin Lee) the youngest of his three daughters. A 60-year-old retiree who sits around watching old home movies of his little girls Ed has plunged into a suicidal funk. But every time he begins to act on his self-destructive urges Katie barges in on him barely noticing his distress." a fellow high school student who lives next door and with whom she has never spoken a word. Acutely aware of each other but silent by tacit agreement these teenagers who exchange meaningful poker-faced looks when they pass each other in the halls are engaged in a tit-for-tat war in which they play increasingly grisly practical jokes on each other." ” which is handsomely photographed they don’t add up to something larger than the sum of their parts." Julie (Elaine Kao) is a medical student who begins to emerge from her shell when Mia Scarlett (Mia Riverton) a flirtatious television starlet visiting the hospital to study for a role puts the moves on her after Julie helps her through the trauma of seeing a chest cut open. Julie is besotted with this Angelina Jolie-manqué until the star treats her carelessly; then Julie shows her mettle." 
8063
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/06/movies/06sain.html
which he acknowledged to friends but kept largely hidden from his colleagues at the Fire Department led him to work closely with the gay Catholic organization Dignity and brought him into conflict with the conservative Catholic establishment. He marched in a St. Patrick’s Day parade organized by the gay activist Brendan Fay a prominent talking head in the film and one of its producers." the much-loved New York City Fire Department chaplain who was one of the first to die at the World Trade Center when debris fell on his head as he was following firefighters into the lobby of the north tower. Although the film makes tentative gestures toward being a full-blown biographical portrait it isn’t that. Directed by Glenn Holsten and narrated by  Ian McKellen in a stately funereal voice it is a tender memorial to a complicated man who devoted his life to service." Christopher Landy; edited by Kathleen Soulliere; music by Michael Aharon; produced by Equality Forum and Brendan Fay; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 91 minutes. This film is not rated." loving smiling having received our loved ones. They are in his presence illumined by his smile and warmed by his love. His kingdom is enriched this day so enriched by so many beautiful souls so much beauty.”" they serve as a benediction:" reverential tone is established early on with an image of Father Judge’s body being carried from the rubble while a talking head compares the picture to a Pietà. As the stories of his good deeds accumulate he is remembered as a charismatic down-to-earth man of the people who lived selflessly and joyously." it strongly implies that he was. By the time of his death at 68 Father Judge had been sober for 23 years and had saved countless lives by taking people to Alcoholics Anonymous. One man remembers living in a box on the street until Father Judge found and rescued him." the son of Irish immigrants Father Judge  barely knew his father who died when he was 6 and he deeply regretted not having him to look up to." when even medical personnel were fearful of physical contact with quarantined patients Father Judge ministered to dying young men at St. Vincent’s Hospital and physically embraced them. Even when he encountered hostility from patients who wanted nothing to do with religion he discovered that rubbing their feet with holy oil before talking with them would usually break down their resistance." Steven McDonald." idiosyncratic portrait of a man who by many accounts was a wonderful raconteur whose gift of gab was complemented by a rollicking sense of humor. All we see of his gifts as a speaker are excerpts from solemn public appearances." 
8064
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/06/movies/06pape.html
“Paper Dolls” is a modest film less interested in advocacy or analysis than in sympathy. Not that politics is entirely absent from the story Mr. Heymann has to tell. Most of the men who appear in the movie described as being in various stages of sex  transition and known by the feminine names they have adopted came to Israel in the wake of the second intifada to fill jobs traditionally done by Palestinians. Their status can be precarious since they are ineligible for citizenship and their visas can be revoked if they lose their jobs." English and Tagalog with English subtitles) and directed by Tomer Heymann; director of photography Itai Raziel; edited by Lavi Ben Gal; music by Eli Soorani; produced by Claudia Levin Stanley Buchthal and Mr. Heymann; released by Strand Releasing. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 80 minutes. This film is not rated." directed by Tomer Heymann is part diary and part human-interest story. It examines the lives of a group of transsexual Philippine immigrants who work as home attendants for elderly Israelis and also perform in Tel Aviv nightclubs. It also records the filmmaker’s friendship with them including his efforts to bring them to the attention of an influential club promoter." one of the senior paper dolls and a person of striking poise and charisma with her employer Haim. Though throat cancer has left him unable to speak Haim is nonetheless a dynamic presence in the film and in Sally’s life urging her to read the poetry of Yehuda Amichai correcting her Hebrew grammar and visibly basking in her warmth and wit. They have the easy humorous tenderness of a long-married couple." they fit in as best they can speaking pretty good Hebrew and ignoring the occasional stares that come their way especially in the Orthodox neighborhoods where they work. Most have mixed feelings about their temporary home which is a more open less sexually repressive society than the one they left but also one they find to be cold materialistic and bureaucratic. Like nannies and nurses around the world they are expected to provide boundless care — even love — for a modest wage." which seeks to illuminate a subculture without allowing its curiosity to become exploitative or prurient. It is a plea for — and an example of — tolerance and affection and it succeeds in showing the individuality and dignity of Sally Chiqui Jan Giorgio and their friends." “Paper Dolls ” which opens today at Film Forum is both a surprise and something of a relief." 
8065
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/06/movies/06cant.html
“A Cantor’s Tale” is more concerned with singing praises than with arguing over orthodoxies. The movie is  most engaging when following Mr. Mendelson around his old neighborhood Borough Park which we learn is simply teeming with bakers whose singing is on a par with their knishes." Mr. Mendelson recalls a time when cantorial music was everywhere and its performers as popular as baseball heroes. “They had groupies ” he says revealing a perk no chubby high school boy  with the dream of becoming a cantor could afford to dismiss. Even tougher to reject was a bipolar mother obsessed with having a cantor son. But as the film attests the music is its own best advocate. Interviews with an uncharacteristically subdued Jackie Mason and Alan Dershowitz suggest an awareness that they’re in the presence of greater voices." Sam Henriques; edited by Karlyn Michelson; music by Frank London; released by Ergo Media Inc. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 95 minutes. This film is not rated." but we may just have found the inspiration for Mr. Spielberg’s truck-obsessed debut “Duel.”" rotund and prone to impromptu bursts of song (he carries a tuning fork at all times) Mr. Mendelson is a celebrated teacher and practitioner of  Jewish liturgical music   and has dedicated his life to preserving the form’s traditional vocal stylings. Judging by Erik Greenberg Anjou’s charming film “A Cantor’s Tale ” he’s  succeeding." 
8066
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/02/movies/02wick.html
see and it’s ruled by women. Goddesses! Most of them are blond and a lot of them are twins and they have all this honey and these wild costumes. Porno? What are you talking about? It’s a horror movie. Don’t you get it?" and Mr. Cage trudges through the woods badgering women dressed in 19th-century homespun and expressing frustration disbelief and bewilderment. Indeed there is reason to wonder just what he is doing in this movie. Having recently seen “The Ant Bully ” in which Mr. Cage provides the voice of an ant I could only conclude that either he or his agent has a special interest in the social insects." based on the  screenplay by Anthony Shaffer of the 1973 film; director of photography Paul Sarossy; edited by Joel Plotch; music by Angelo Badalamenti; production designer Phillip Barker; produced by Nicolas Cage Norm Golightly Avi Lerner Randall Emmett John Thompson and Boaz Davidson; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 106 minutes." who plays a highway patrolman named Edward Malus. One day not long after witnessing a horrible (and never-explained) vehicle explosion Malus receives a letter from his former fiancée Willow (Kate Beahan) whose calligraphy is as impeccable as her grammar. She writes that her daughter Rowan (Erika-Shaye Gair) is missing and so her haggard ex puts on a tie and some cologne downs some pills and heads out to Puget Sound where Willow has taken up with a sisterhood of organic honey ranchers all of them named after plants." the person who sold me the ticket and the person who tore it in half both assured me that even though it appeared to admit me to “Idlewild” in Theater 11 I would indeed be seeing Neil LaBute’s remake of a semi-well-known 1973 cult horror film. Which I did." as you wait for the bee ladies to stop messing with the poor cop’s head and just tell him what’s what your mind may wander off in search of interpretation. Do the beehives — a symbol associated with the Mormon Church and the state of Utah — have something to do with Mr. LaBute’s religious background? Did the residents of the island get kicked out of M. Night Shyamalan’s village? Nothing so interesting: just another example of Mr. LaBute’s batty slightly hysterical misogyny overlaid with some mumbo jumbo about ancient goddess religions that makes “The Da Vinci Code” look scholarly even as “The Wicker Man” reverses that film’s mushy pseudofeminism." on the other hand were expecting to see “Idlewild ” and expressed their puzzlement when instead of the members of OutKast frolicking in a 1930’s nightclub they saw Nicolas Cage tramping around an island inhabited by blond matriarchal beekeepers." with his reputation as an intellectual provocateur was doing when he set out to update one of the most enduringly creepy horror films ever made. The original written by Anthony Schaffer and directed by Robin Hardy imagined a remote island off the west coast of Scotland where a sinister form of pagan nature worship — involving quite a bit of outdoor nudity — had survived on the far fringe of modernity. Christopher Lee ran the place back then. Now Ellen Burstyn is in charge." never much of an artist with the camera proves almost comically inept as a horror-movie technician. He can’t even manage an effective false scare or sustain suspense for more than a beat or two. Nor does the crude sloppy look of the film turn into cheesy campy excess. It’s neither haunting nor amusing; just boring." ” not screened in advance for critics appears to be one. Even though a reliable Web site had promised a noon showing on Friday at a 12-screen multiplex in downtown Brooklyn the theater’s display of titles and show times made no mention of “The Wicker Man.”" Ellen Burstyn (Sister Summersisle) Kate Beahan (Sister Willow) Frances Conroy (Dr. Moss) Molly Parker (Sister Rose) Leelee Sobieski (Sister Honey) and Diane Delano (Sister Beech)." 
8067
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/02/movies/02cran.html
gobbles energy supplements injects ephedrine fondles a defibrillator licks cocaine off a bathroom floor snorts nasal decongestant by the bottle and rapes his girlfriend (Amy Smart playing dumb) in the middle of Chinatown. Mostly however he’s powered by rage which he vents through explosions of violence and misanthropy." brutish and short." in the climactic showdown Verona holsters his gun to plunge another syringe of poison into Chev’s neck  — you know the one that doesn’t work  — then turns his back to make a getaway. He may be one of the dumbest villains in movie history but you’ve got to root for him. Dead Chev puts everyone out of his misery." gimmickry and hysterical camerawork none of which is as vigorous as the equal-opportunity hatred they exhibit toward the denizens of Los Angeles be they black Latino Asian Muslim gay female or theater customers paying to see a decent action flick." “Crank” proves fatally turgid. The premise takes high concept to a new low. Chev Chelios (Jason Stratham) hit man extraordinaire wakes up to learn he’s been dosed with “the Beijing cocktail ” a poison whose lethal effects can be fended off only by a constant surge of adrenaline. Thus with utmost speed in this retread of “Speed ” Chev rampages through Los Angeles seeking Verona (Jose Pablo Cantillo) the rival who poisoned him and the means of sustaining his neck-bulging buzz." Adam Biddle; edited by Brian Berdan; music by Paul Haslinger; production designer Jerry Fleming; produced by Tom Rosenberg Gary Lucchesi Richard S. Wright Skip Williamson and Michael Davis; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 83 minutes." Amy Smart (Eve) Jose Pablo Cantillo (Verona) Efren Ramirez (Kaylo) Dwight Yoakam (Doc Miles) Carlos Sanz (Carlito) Jay Xcala (Alex) and Keone Young (Don Kim)." 
8068
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/01/movies/01warh.html
the word “genius” is used to describe his eradication of the distinction between commercial and fine art and how that changed the way we see the world. As one commentator puts it our experience of a supermarket was never the same after Warhol’s Brillo box sculptures and paintings of Campbell’s soup cans were exhibited as fine art. He is credited as a pioneer of assembly line production and of dissolving the lines between painting and photography." citing 1962 the year he first exhibited the soup can paintings in Los Angeles as the turning point. When he took up moviemaking the drag queens hustlers speed freaks and exhibitionists drawn to his Silver Factory on East 47th Street were misfits who saw the possibility of achieving redemption from a fellow outsider who had figured out how to be famous." the troubled charismatic socialite who entered his sphere in 1965 might be his ticket to Hollywood but she died in 1971 at the age of 28. By the time he moved his operation from 47th Street to Union Square he had acquired the nickname Drella a hybrid of Cinderella and Dracula that evoked his indifference to his entourage’s increasingly self-destructive behavior." scholarly hyperbole poured over every aspect of Warhol’s art by assorted talking heads is supported by much of what is shown. Noted are his prodigious gifts as a colorist and a draftsman his innovative use of “the blotted line” in his drawings and the way his early films shot at the standard sound speed of 24 frames a second and projected at the silent speed of 16 frames a second slowed down time." there is the work itself. The silkscreen portraits of Marilyn Monroe Elizabeth Taylor and Elvis Presley have an iconographic power and luminosity that has only deepened over time; even on a movie or television screen these images rivet you. The excerpts from early silent films like “Sleep” and “Haircut ” the first lyrical the second deeply sinister support the assertion that Warhol was “reinventing cinema from the beginning.”" bulbous nose and early hair loss (concealed under a series of bad wigs) Warhol regarded himself as a physical freak and hated to be touched. Although he had homosexual sex he was essentially a voyeur with a voracious appetite for fame. He obviously could not be Marilyn Monroe but he could become a brand-name art star and he bent all his talent and willpower to the quest." Buddy Squires Peter Nelson Allen Moore Michael Chin and Don Lenzer; edited by Li-Shin Yu and Juliana Parroni; music by Brian Keane; produced by Donald Rosenfeld Daniel Wolf and Mr. Burns; released by Steeplechase Films Mr. Wolf High Line Productions and Thirteen/WNET New York. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Sixth Avenue South Village. Running time: 4 hours with an intermission. This film is not rated." Warhol fixated on Shirley Temple and dreamed of being her. Years later a newcomer in New York he became obsessed with the young Truman Capote after recognizing a kindred spirit from the notorious fey portrait on the jacket of his first published novel “Other Voices Other Rooms.” For a while Warhol even stalked Capote who rejected his overtures of friendship." which opens a two-week engagement today at Film Forum in Manhattan — free to the public —  before its television debut this month on PBS assures us that Warhol was the greatest artist of the second half of the 20th century just as Picasso was of the first half. Written by James Sanders and Mr. Burns and narrated by Laurie Anderson in her best medical technician voice the movie is an entirely absorbing occasionally revelatory portrait of a brilliant talent driven to greatness by an inner chorus of demons and angels." a mystery." which is described in detail ended the glorious first phase of his career. While the film makes a tentative case for the significance of Warhol’s fusion of art and business in the years after his recovery its heart is not in it. Paul Morrissey who wrote and directed such Warhol-produced films as “Flesh ” “Trash” and “Heat ” barely appears nor are these films mentioned." Liz et al. and the grid portraying the images of saints that Warhol encountered as a child in a Catholic church where he spent many hours a week. For a physically frail effeminate boy who grew up in a poor immigrant family and was forced to share a bed with his two brothers this adoration sprung from the primal longing of the outsider with his nose pressed to the glass of beauty glamour and fame." what his triumph tells us about ourselves — as a society in which every aspect of life is commodified — is not reassuring. For better or worse Warhol was a prophet of the rot eroding the empire from the inside out. Before Madonna and Paris Hilton there was Warhol. But to assume as some still do that Warhol’s vision was nihilistic and steeped in irony is to look only at the chilly industrialized surface of art that sprang from a passionate quasi-religious worship of pop culture and its icons." the author of a biography of Warhol says in the film: “We want to redeem the garbage in our life. When I look at Warhol what I feel is maximum redemption of lost material. He puts meaning back where there was deadness.”" 
8069
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/01/movies/01rate.html
Shana Hagan Kirsten Johnson and Amy Vincent; edited by Matthew Clarke; animated graphics by ka-chew!; produced by Eddie Schmidt; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at West Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 97 minutes. This film is not rated." unabashedly on the side of the filmmakers is particularly concerned with art films — movies obviously intended for grown-up viewing that are nonetheless subjected to a regime ostensibly designed to protect children. But — at the risk of sounding like Maude Flanders — what about the children? How are parents supposed to navigate the flood tide of popular culture that engulfs their kids at younger and younger ages? Does this ratings system help? Could it be improved?" Mr. Dick hires private detectives who park outside its nondescript offices in the Encino section of Los Angeles scribbling down license plate numbers and taking pictures of employees on their lunch breaks. Mr. Dick even rummages through trash bags and discovers important if puzzling clues about why “Memoirs of a Geisha” qualified for a PG-13." former president of United Artists goes further describing it as “fascist.”) The record of its recent decisions suggests a special squeamishness about depictions of female sexual pleasure and a picayune fastidiousness about certain body parts. A glimpse of Maria Bello’s pubic hair for instance threatened to doom “The Cooler” to an NC-17. But then again “A Dirty Shame ” John Waters’s 2004 film received the same rating just for talking about certain outré practices while showing almost no skin at all. (When Mr. Dick submitted a cut of this film it was slapped with an NC-17 an unsurprising outcome that led to some hilarious Kafkaesque telephone conversations between him and Joan Graves the chairwoman of the ratings board. IFC Films which is not owned by a major studio and therefore not required to submit its releases to the association is distributing the film without a rating.)" you’ve no doubt noticed that most of them end with a brief italic note written by the critic explaining (and occasionally mocking) the film’s rating. For some readers this is the most important part of the review and for this critic it is often the hardest to write. The little boxes that appear at the bottom of the print advertisements are sometimes helpful — we all know nudity or drug use when we see it — but they can also be mystifying. What is “intense adventure violence”? Are “thematic elements” harmful to children? When the box says “some language ” just how much language does it mean? And which language? Would a movie with no language be less dangerous?" and the narrow scope of “This Film Is Not Yet Rated” makes it more of a culture-war broadside than a nuanced work of cultural inquiry. It is nonetheless an engaging and entertaining movie one that tries to illuminate an aspect of moviemaking — and moviegoing — that is deliberately left in the dark." since some of the biggest theater chains retail stores and video outlets avoid the NC-17 rating as a matter of policy. Filmmakers who want their movies to be seen — and who often need to fulfill contracts requiring that they deliver a film with a certain rating — are thus compelled to cut their films to the association’s standards a process that often involves guessing just what those standards are." ” a feisty intellectually engaging new documentary by Kirby Dick (“Sick ” “Derrida ” “Twist of Faith”) does not so much answer these questions as explore just why they are so difficult to answer. The Motion Picture Association of America which devised the current rating system and administers it can be a remarkably secretive organization. Founded by the major Hollywood studios to head off the threat of government censorship and run for most of its history by Jack Valenti a former staff member in Lyndon B. Johnson’s White House the association often seems more arbitrary and less transparent in its workings than any federal agency this side of the C.I.A." clips from movies that have run into trouble with the board and occasional sound bites from the irrepressible Mr. Valenti who tells us that the folks who hand out the ratings are “neither gods nor fools.” That narrows it down a bit though not enough for Mr. Dick who uncovers some curious inconsistencies in the association’s accounts of its procedures. Do the clergymen who sit in on appeals board meetings — along with representatives of theater chains and film sales companies — have a vote or not? No clear answer is forthcoming. Does the ratings board take a harder line on sex than on violence? On gay sex than on straight?" 
8070
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/01/movies/01mutu.html
because not much happens. But Alan Ellie and Lawrence don’t actually drive the film; they inhabit it like people who took up residence long ago. So what’s it about? Everything nothing. Mostly though it’s about a group of young people trying to figure out where they fit into the world. And so they talk and talk and talk some more circling and hedging and stammering “you know umm.” Ellie teases Lawrence who’s so deep in the relationship he can’t see her struggle. Hiding behind a killer smile Alan repeats questions like a defense witness as when Sara (Seung-Min Lee) asks if he has a girlfriend. “Do I have a girlfriend?” he echoes as if wondering the same." who in keeping with the D.I.Y. ethos of classic independence plays one of the film’s leads a teaching assistant named Lawrence. He enters soon after the film opens as another young man Alan (Justin Rice) talks with a young woman Ellie (Rachel Clift) on a bed plopped on the floor of a sparsely furnished apartment. The two are clothed but from the easiness of their conversation and the way her arms move almost as if they wanted to reach out across the bed it feels as if maybe they wish they weren’t. The bed belongs to Lawrence who on entering this cozy setup promptly wedges his body between his girlfriend and best friend." and she says she loves him but one year into the relationship she seems uneasy. Maybe it’s Lawrence or maybe it’s Alan: your boyfriend’s rock-musician best friend can do that to a girl though Mr. Bujalski would never propose something so psychologically crude. His characters are self-conscious if not especially self-aware and he isn’t about to let on that he’s more on the ball than they are. And in a sense they’re both still figuring it out. Mr. Bujalski earned some serious critical attention with his even more unassuming first feature “Funny Ha Ha ” which was more knowing than its scruffy surfaces might suggest. The more openly ambitious “Mutual Appreciation” shows that the first film wasn’t a fluke and that Mr. Bujalski is beginning to appreciate visual beauty." it does boldly look back at Jean Eustache’s landmark of modern French cinema “The Mother and the Whore.” Released in 1973 Eustache’s long generational bleat pivots on a handful of chatty young Parisians who are blotto with booze sex and narcissism. The men and women in “Mutual Appreciation” often come across as being as inwardly directed as those in the Eustache; the crucial difference is that the shadow of 1968 that hangs over the French characters invests their self-absorption with an intimation of tragedy. Mr. Bujalski’s characters by contrast don’t even have generational failure on their side an absence of history of myth alluded to by Alan’s drunken confession that all he wants out of life is “a good story.”" directed and edited by Andrew Bujalski; director of photography Matthias Grunsky; songs by Justin Rice & Kevin Micka Bishop Allen Omzo Matty & Mossy the Common Cold and Brandon Patton; produced by Ethan Vogt Morgan Faust and Dia Sokol; released by Goodbye Cruel Releasing. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 110 minutes. This film is not rated." but there’s nothing dusty about it. Shot on expressively grainy black-and-white celluloid the film has the kind of artfully artless low-fi vibe that brings to mind the French New Wave of the late 1950’s and the East Village film scene of the late 1970’s. It’s the sort of unassuming discovery that could get lost in a crowd or suffer from too much big love and while it won’t save or change your life it may make your heart swell. Its aim is modest and true." that good story might mean a record deal and a surfeit of cool. But like Ryan Fleck’s “Half Nelson” and Kelly Reichardt’s forthcoming “Old Joy ” two other hopeful signs of cinematic life from young American directors “Mutual Appreciation” is a film that makes a strong sincere case that we only get that good story with other people. It’s not for nothing that Alan is a man in search of a band. The need for mutual appreciation as it were is beautifully telegraphed by Mr. Bujalski in that scene when Sara abruptly tackles Alan. She tells him he seems nervous not knowing that one of his hands is hovering above her back trembling like a flag of surrender. “I just have uh ” he stammers “a congenital tremor.”" ” critics sometimes invoked John Cassavetes the godhead of American independent cinema. Cassavetes too often serves as shorthand for anything that looks and sounds somewhat rough around the edges authentic and seemingly unscripted (though what a burden that name can be especially for young filmmakers). But what connects “Funny Ha Ha” and “Mutual Appreciation” to Cassavetes or at least his legacy of willful independence isn’t the handheld camera work or the persistent intimacy which could have easily been learned from cinéma vérité. If Mr. Bujalski has learned anything from Cassavetes it’s that films should be about life not death fashion or virtuosity and that there are few more meaningful subjects for art and for personal expression than other people." Rachel Clift (Ellie) Andrew Bujalski  (Lawrence) Seung-Min Lee (Sara) Kevin Micka (Dennis) Bill Morrison (Walter) Pamela Corkey  (Patricia) and Mary Varn  (Rebecca)." the only remaining member of a band called the Bumblebees meets Sara at a radio station where she’s a D.J. They end up at her apartment where he scrutinizes her books as if looking for clues. She offers him a beer and sits on her bed apologizing that there are no chairs. (Never mind the sofa in the other room.) After she asks about a girlfriend and he repeats the question Mr. Bujalski cuts from the two sitting together to Sara climbing onto Alan’s suddenly prone body. The cut underscores the scene’s painful comedy (it’s funny ha ha) but it also deepens the feeling because it reminds us of how bodies can speak more plaintively than words." 
8071
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/01/movies/01lass.html
Samantha Morton (Sarah) John Lynch (Sam) Steve Pemberton (Hynes) Jonathan Mason (Joe) Hester Odgers (Cilla) Jemma Redgrave (Daisy) Peter Dinklage (Rowlie) Gregor Fisher (Mapes) Edward Fox (Colonel Hulton) and Kelly Macdonald (Jeanie)." ” the latest film about the beloved pooch with the I.Q. of a grad student and the instincts of a boomerang. Blissfully restored to the time period and location of Eric Knight’s 1940 novel “Lassie Come-Home” —originally filmed by MGM in 1943 — the movie sets us down in a Yorkshire mining village with World War II on the horizon and social inequality front and center." Ireland and the Isle of Man) “Lassie” balances cruelty and tenderness pathos and humor without ever losing sight of its youngest audience member. And whether cringing before the Duke’s vicious kennel man (Steve Pemberton) or performing alongside a traveling puppeteer (Peter Dinklage) this Lassie exhibits a repertory of facial expressions that would put Jim Carrey to shame. When little Joe — in a scene that perfectly evokes the British school system’s once-joyful embrace of corporal punishment — gets whacked on the wrist by a ruler-happy teacher the sight of a sorrowful Lassie licking the welts is enough to bring even the most flint-hearted viewers to their knees." based on the book “Lassie Come-Home” by Eric Knight; director of photography Howard Atherton; edited by Peter Coulson and Adam Green; production designer JP Kelly; produced by Mr. Sturridge Ed Guiney and Francesca Barra; released by Roadside Attractions and Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 100 minutes." a terrified fox and a mass of flapping laundry the movie — the 11th Lassie film by the producers’ count — establishes its working-class turf immediately as miners and their wives confront a pack of blue-blooded hunters. The class conflict continues when the Duke of Rudling (a twinkling Peter O’Toole) buys Lassie from Sam Carraclough (John Lynch) an impoverished miner struggling to feed his stoic wife Sarah (Samantha Morton) and 9-year-old son Joe (the adorable Jonathan Mason). For the remainder of the movie Lassie will run limp and crawl her way back to the family she loves a journey that will require her to brave more than 500 miles of countryside and innumerable cameos by well-known British actors. You’ll be pleased to know there are no wells." best known for stiff-upper-lip fare like the television mini-series “Brideshead Revisited ” “Lassie” approaches its classic tale with old-fashioned charm and not a trace of satire. As Lassie is transported to the Duke’s summer estate in the Scottish Highlands the movie’s theme of forced separation is doubly underlined by Sam’s heading off to war and the Duke’s granddaughter Cilla (Hester Odgers) being packed off to boarding school. This last occasions a lovely tart scene in the school dormitory in which a dismayed Cilla is faced with row upon row of miserably numbered cots. “Just like the army ” boasts the headmistress." “Lassie” is exquisitely tuned to the way a child sees the world. The journey from England to Scotland seems to encompass several time zones and a glimpse of Nessie aligns our shaggy heroine with the creatures of Celtic folklore. And though adults may take issue with the film’s ultimate capitulation to the power of patronage tykes will just be happy that Lassie has come home once more to the multiplex where she belongs." a bit of cursing and one dead doggie." 
8072
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/01/movies/01mile.html
the film is warm and affecting. Deriding the heart on its sleeve is as pointless as complaining about snakes on the plane: that’s the deal take it or leave it. Healing through contact with a foreign culture’s folk art is a lovely conceit and Mr. Zhang’s comedy of cross-cultural befuddlement is slyer than anything in “Lost in Translation.”" but everything else is squeaky-clean." plucky peasants and wholesome landscapes the film’s idealized China would have delighted Mao. Realism is not on Mr. Zhang’s agenda (nor for that matter could he continue to make mainland superproductions like his forthcoming “Curse of the Golden Flower” were he keen on critique)." he arrives at a village in Yunnan Province to search out Li Jiamin (as himself) the star of the masked opera that gives the film its name whom Ken-ichi wished to film before illness sent him home. Li has since been jailed for his participation in a drunken brawl but with the help of a sweet-natured guide named Lingo (Qiu Lin) whose inability to speak Japanese is a running joke throughout Takata charms the local bureaucracy into allowing him access to the prisoner." Zhao Xiaoding) and its very simplicity verging on the simple-minded strips down feeling to its essence. Vulnerable corny and disarmingly frank a film in which people don’t just weep but slobber and moan “Riding Alone for Thousands of Miles” drives melodrama right off the map. Cynics are in for a very long haul." Shinobu Terajima (Rie Takata) Kiichi Nakai (Ken-ichi Takata) Li Jiamin (himself) Qiu Lin (Lingo) Jiang Wen (Jasmine) and Yang Zhenbo (Yang Yang)." a taciturn resident of a remote fishing village. On learning that his estranged son Ken-ichi (Kiichi Nakai) is dying of cancer he boards a bullet train for Tokyo only to be rebuffed at the hospital room." with English subtitles) by Zou Jingzhi based on a story by Mr. Zhang Mr. Zou and Wang Bin; director of photography Zhao Xiaoding; edited by Cheng Long; music by Guo Wenjing; production designer Sun Li; produced by Bill Kong Xiu Jian and Zhang Weiping; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 108 minutes." Li is too upset by the memory of his own young son Yang Yang (Yang Zhenbo) to perform. So “Riding Alone for Thousands of Miles” now becomes the story of Takata’s quest to locate this munchkin gain his trust and reconcile him to his father." the silver sea churning before him. Sea gulls twist in the gray sky above dodging shafts of sunlight that fall like bamboo spears drained of their chlorophyll. A little uncanny (has it been digitally manipulated?) and a whole lot clichéd the tableau speaks of melancholy graced by a pale sliver of hope. You’d roll your eyes if they weren’t so dazzled." Takata discovers his son’s passion for the folk opera of rural China and sets off on an odyssey of reconciliation." 
8073
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/01/movies/01kitt.html
“The Brothers McMullen”) this is a modest film on various levels in terms of budget length cast size and technical craft. Though passable at best the digital camerawork does aptly convey the bleakness of the city’s sidewalks and streets during winter." David Krumholtz (Abe Fiannico) Max Baker (Ron Stewart) Connie Britton (Ms. Petracelli) Kevin Kash (K K) and Chris Parnell (Guy Borne)." and an overkill of political jabs (however deserved) at the current White House and the high-rise developers of New York City the central friendship that develops between Abe and Jack feels as authentic as the film’s locations (a specialty of Mr. Burns). And the emotions drawn from their interactions should resonate with anyone who’s ever dealt with extreme loneliness or the slow painful process of letting go." William Rexer II; edited by Sarah Flack; music by Robert Gary and P. T. Walkley; produced by Mr. Burns Aaron Lubin and Margot Bridger; released by ThinkFilm. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 78 minutes." ” the writer-director-actor Edward Burns’s latest exercise in maleness. Abe (David Krumholtz who is first-rate) an impossibly rigid but kindhearted high school baseball coach from upstate travels to Manhattan in search of his wife who may or may not be shacking up with a geeky rock star. He hires Jack (Mr. Burns) a disgruntled cop turned private investigator whose wife recently died to find out and pays extra to tag along." 
8074
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/01/movies/01cros.html
Anthony Mackie (Tech) Wayne Brady (Vaughn) Wesley Jonathan (Noah Cruise) Kristen Wilson (Nikki) Li’l J J (Up) Hot Sauce  (Jewelz) and Alecia Fears (Eboni)." striving and rivalry are the keynotes of the movie which is sincere in debunking the notion that the highest aspiration for a young black man is to be the next Allen Iverson. As for the game play N.B.A. Street V3 for the Xbox isn’t losing any sleep." Christian Sebaldt; production designer Dawn Snyder; produced by Frank Mancuso and Lorenzo O’Brien; released by TriStar Pictures. Running time: 95 minutes." the movie does have a serious moral agenda albeit one resolved by the laziest of “where are they now” codas. Tech (Anthony Mackie) dreams of N.B.A. stardom while pursuing his G.E.D. His buddy Noah (Wesley Jonathan) is studying hard for medical school. The pursuit of their goals is complicated by a Faustian nightclub owner (Wayne Brady) the local street ball champ (Phillip Champion) and a pair of girlfriends (Alecia Fears and Eva Pigford) conceived of by the writer and director Preston A. Whitmore II as a milquetoast manicurist and a trash-talking gold digger respectively." it features on-court showdowns you’ll want to keep an eye out for plus buck-wild cheerleaders so scantily dressed that half the budget must have gone to Brazilian bikini waxing. From the look of the shoddy photography and no-bones production design I’m not sure what the other half was spent on." the attitude and the representation of women come from the street." 
8075
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/25/movies/25worm.html
11-year-old Billy (Luke Benward) has barely climbed off his bicycle when he becomes a target of scorn and abuse. Led by a pint-size terror named Joe Guire (Adam Hicks) the boys in Billy’s fifth-grade class immediately give him the freeze and then stuff a handful of worms in his lunch thermos." who also wrote the fine adaptation “How to Eat Fried Worms” is an easygoing entertainment in which a sensible message about growing up also rationalizes the abuse of power. However lightly played this is after all a film in which children learn to stand up for themselves and for one another by killing animals." Hallie Kate Eisenberg (Erika Tansy) Adam Hicks (Joe Guire) Austin Rogers (Adam Simms) Alexander Gould (Twitch) Ryan Malgarini (Benjy) Philip Daniel Bolden (Bradley) Ty Panitz (Woody Forrester) James Rebhorn (Principal  Burdock) Kimberly Williams-Paisley (Helen Forrester) Tom Cavanagh (Mitch Forrester) and Andrea Martin (Mrs. Bommley)." yeah we’re talking worms sure. But the lesson remains the same whether it’s an invertebrate squirming on the grill or a puppy. On the page Mr. Rockwell’s humor produces hoots. (“Tomorrow I’ll roll the crawler in cornmeal and fry it. Like a trout.”) But transposed to the big screen yuck! No worms may have been harmed in the making of this film but it’s unlikely the under-age audience will care." the worms go out but mostly what they do in the children’s film “How to Eat Fried Worms” is end up battered splattered pureed deep fried and nuked (in a microwave)." based on the popular book by Thomas Rockwell first published in 1973 involves the new kid on the block who in a spasm of nutty if age- and gender-appropriate braggadocio agrees to a wormy dare under pressure from the school bully. Nicely directed the film version proves refreshingly free of the customary blights that affect most modern children’s movies notably adult condescension. But man is it mean." based on the novel by Thomas Rockwell; director of photography Richard Rutkowski; edited by Janice Hampton; music by Mark Mothersbaugh and Bob Mothersbaugh; production designer Caty Maxey; produced by Mark Johnson and Philip Steuer; released by New Line Cinema and Walden Media. Running time: 98 minutes." that’s more or less how it plays out though with more intentional laughs than provided by Robert Bly. The questing young males in the film don’t bang drums to satisfy their mythopoetic needs; they just throw another worm on the barbie." “How to Eat Fried Worms” is at least in part about how to eat fried worms." Billy retaliates with some big talk and a fearsome gesture that wins him the approval of some of the other school outcasts: he tosses one of the worms in Joe’s face turning his carrot-topped tormentor’s freckles a darker shade of red.  Joe exacts his revenge of course which is how Billy strong of heart but weak of stomach ends up eating and sometimes slurping one creepy crawler after another over the course of one Saturday afternoon." the boys also join forces whenever a grown-up (including the great Andrea Martin as their teacher) comes snooping. The secret worlds that children make for themselves are delightfully realized in a scene in which Billy’s father asks the boys enemies and friends alike what they are up to and receives a collective “having fun” in response." largely because he doesn’t tell them what’s going on — the crucible of the worms has the potential glory certain agony and epic dimension of a knight’s quest. If he succeeds in completing his gastronomic journey he earns his freedom and more; if he fails it will be an exceedingly long school year. For as the worms and his stomach turn so does his life." 
8076
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/25/movies/25suic.html
revenge fundamentalism extremism anti-Semitism conditions in Gaza despair poverty nihilism chauvinism the oppression of women and cruddy documentaries that replace analysis with a litany of bummers." if you’re not allowed out of the house you might as well go all jihad if only for a bit of fresh air and the opportunity to travel." the movie spends much of its brief running time presenting the faces of radical Islamic martyrdom specifically in the form carried out by Palestinians in the streets shops and discos of Israel. We meet foiled bombers in prison parents of successful ones survivors of attacks and numerous pundits armed with bromidic sound bites." enforced by a neurotic clergy on libidinous young men all too eager to sacrifice their loveless existence for the virgin orgies of paradise. Cue a montage of Arab boys brandishing phallic grenade launchers and virile machine guns." rather incredibly at a Times Square multiplex in order to qualify most improbably for an Academy Award nomination this haphazard inquiry into suicide bombing is perhaps most notable for its role as preposterous counterprogramming to “Beerfest.”" Hebrew Spanish and French with English subtitles; director of photography Al Mada; edited by Alexandre Adam Marcos Levy Jonathan Sears Dylan Thomas and Yury Tacher; music by John Califra; released by City Lights Pictures. At the AMC Empire 25 234 West 42nd Street at Eighth Avenue. Running time: 75 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8077
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/25/movies/25quie.html
two beautiful teenagers meet cute and contrived when the good brunette the newly orphaned Dot (Camilla Belle) moves in with the family of the bad blonde Nina Deer (Elisha Cuthbert). But while Nina’s space-case mother (Edie Falco) and father (Martin Donovan) warmly welcome the stray their daughter is soon making like Paris Hilton and mercilessly cutting the interloper down to Nicole Richie size. Deaf and mute and friendless Dot in turn takes to studying Nina as impassively as an ethnographer in the field. Is she smitten with the other girl or just biding her sweet vengeful time? The answer is less obvious than Ms. Falco and Mr. Donovan’s substandard performances though rather less compelling than the sight of Nina ironing her cheerleader’s uniform in her underwear." “The Quiet” flirts with the trappings of exploitation cinema without going all the way. The director Jamie Babbit whose films include “But I’m a Cheerleader ” suggestively crowds her two talented leads together but can’t push them or the film into the fairy-tale surrealism to which she seems to aspire. She dutifully trots out the usual family horrors (a criminally creepy father a chemically addled mother) so beloved by both exploitation auteurs and the Sundance labs where Abdi Nazemian and Micah Schraft developed their screenplay. But what she can’t tap is that go-for-broke lunacy that makes a flick like “Wild Things” a classic of its trashy kind and might have saved this film from that cinematic slag heap known as late August." Camilla Belle (Dot) Edie Falco (Olivia) Martin Donovan (Paul) Shawn Ashmore (Connor) and Katy Mixon (Michelle)." M. David Mullen; music by Jeff Rona; production designer John Frick; produced by Carolyn Pfeiffer Andrea Sperling Joel Michaely and Holly Wiersma; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 96 minutes." 
8078
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/25/movies/25quee.html
“Queens” is far more interested in their overbearing mothers. While the sons dance bicker and fret over antiques the mamas express their discomfort with the wedding plans by seducing inappropriate men. Reyes (Marisa Paredes) a wealthy actress lusts after her longtime gardener; Magda (Carmen Maura) a successful hotelier seeks comfort—and the end of a kitchen staff strike — in the arms of her head chef. Most creative of all is Nuria (Veronica Forqué) an enthusiastic nymphomaniac whose conquests include her drunken future son-in-law." Veronica Forqué (Nuria) Mercedes Sampietro (Helena) Carmen Maura (Magda) Betiana Blum (Ofelia) Fernando Valverde (Hector) Lluís Homar (Jacinto) and Gustavo Salmerón (Hugo)." with English subtitles) by Yolanda García Serrano Joaquin Oristrell and Mr. Gómez Pereira; director of photography Juan Amoros; edited by Jose Salcedo; music by Bingen Mendizabal; production designer Carlos Conti; produced by José Luis Escolar; released by Regent Releasing/Here! Films. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 107 minutes." aggressive bosoms and a single intimidated penis." Los Angeles and Pasadena Calif." ” a silly but generous Spanish farce from the writer and director Manuel Gómez Pereira is its unadulterated worship of middle-aged women. Not one of its five female leads will see 50 again (and two have stared down 60) yet the movie cheerfully crams them into lethal heels cleavage-baring frocks and enough lip gloss to grease a long-distance swimmer. Thus adorned they flirt frolic and have fabulously wicked sex. Viva España!" “Queens” is a dithering confection that glosses over its class conflicts in favor of a limp subplot involving a lost dog. Yet as we watch Ms. Paredes glide down a staircase to the sultry strains of “Fever ” we’re reminded that while gay marriage wasn’t legalized in Spain until last year sexy mothers have been permitted since the  Enlightenment." 
8079
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/25/movies/25invi.html
hostile teammates and an excess of slow-motion photography Vince is soon being pummeled in summer training and body-slammed in a losing game against the Dallas Cowboys. As Jackson Browne mopes on the soundtrack and the football fans wilt in the stands Vince’s embittered dad Frank (Kevin Conway) cautions against optimism. “A man can only take so much failure ” he warns. Recognizing that the same is true of movie audiences Disney piles on the uplift on and off the field." Greg Kinnear (Dick Vermeil) Elizabeth Banks (Janet Cantwell) Kirk Acevedo (Tommy) Kevin Conway (Frank Papale) Michael Kelly (Pete) Michael Rispoli (Max) and Michael Nouri (Leonard Tose)." the director and cinematographer Ericson Core focuses on the stained wallpaper in Vince’s apartment and the dingy camaraderie of the neighborhood bar. He understands that to the beleaguered working class in mid-1970’s Philadelphia Vince’s story holds out hope for much more than just a winning game." Mr. Core; production designer Sarah Knowles; produced by Mark Ciardi Gordon Gray and Ken Mok; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 108 minutes." whose “Remember the Titans” in 2000 was followed by “The Rookie” in 2002 and “Miracle” in 2004. The pattern continues with “Invincible ” the true story of Vince Papale (Mark Wahlberg) a 30-year-old substitute teacher and part-time bartender who in 1976 was signed  to play for the struggling Philadelphia Eagles." 
8080
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/25/movies/25idle.html
a gruff unsmiling mortician played by a persuasively vinegary Ben Vereen. Rooster meanwhile married with a half-dozen children earns his comfortable keep as a singer down at the local juke joint called Church. Rooster is all crow and plenty of show and the first time he takes the stage in “Idlewild ” he enters wearing a fur coat that looks like a skinned yeti and surrounded by a chorus of beauties in bubble-gum pink ostrich feathers. Like most of the songs in the film what he sings isn’t especially memorable but he delivers this disappointing news with style." including a beautiful singer Angel (Paula Patton) who strolls into  Church one day and tries to steal the show. Ms. Patton is a lovely woman with a serviceable voice but when the fabulous Macy Gray is in the house as a loud canary named Taffy Angel can’t help but seem beside the point. (It’s disconcerting that Ms. Patton by far the most glamorized female lead also has the palest skin.) Like clockwork Angel hooks up with Percival who tends to otherwise mope about idly tickling piano keys. A Jelly Roll Hamlet in search of a reason for being or maybe just for leaving the small town of Idlewild Percival has talent and apparent depth which Mr. Benjamin conveys principally by looking downcast." Mr. Barber expressed a long-held desire to direct what he called a “1930’s musical”; he might have done well to actually watch a couple before he started shooting. Busby Berkeley the brilliant choreographer of 30’s musicals like “42nd Street ” could have taught Mr. Barber something about moving bodies and cameras through space. A close study of one of Mr. Barber’s professed touchstones Vincente Minnelli’s 1943 all-black musical “Cabin in the Sky ” would have been similarly instructive. Mr. Barber loads his visually incoherent film with poor camera choices that make it difficult to ground yourself in a scene and that with the grievous overediting make it hard to appreciate the actual talent on screen." adult language hooch and suspicious-looking clouds of “cigarette” smoke." but Mr. Benjamin is  particularly let down because he has in the past dazzled whenever a camera has been pointed at him. Given both his interest in film acting and the limited role historically assigned to black entertainers you can understand why he doesn’t want to smile for his first big film role. But there’s a difference between being a serious actor and being a wet blanket and Mr. Benjamin and his director have neither the experience nor the instincts to make sure that Percival has sufficient emotional shading. If Mr. Patton fares better it’s largely because Rooster with his lust for life and outsize personality has been drawn with broad strokes that make sense for the real-life singer and his fictional self." alas. The writer and director Bryan Barber a music-video auteur with loads of credits seems to have riffled through the Warner Brothers film catalog to compile enough chestnuts to take him and his crew through several Christmases. Without any ironic inflection he recycles ideas and tropes that were stale when Edward G. Robinson was chewing cigars and scenery in the 1931 film “Little Caesar.” When a wife in  “Idlewild” pleads with her wayward husband by imploring him to remember the way it “used to be ” his only response is to call her baby and ask for her trust. And when someone gives the same man a Bible you know that good book will save him body and soul." Pascal Rabaud; edited by Anne Goursaud; music by John Debney; choreography by Hinton Battle; production designer Charles Breen; produced by Charles Roven and Robert Guralnick; released by Universal Pictures and HBO Films. Running time: 120 minutes." Antwan A. Patton (Rooster) Paula Patton (Angel) Terrence Howard (Trumpy) Faizon Love (Ace) Malinda Williams (Zora) Cicely Tyson (Mother Hopkins) Macy Gray (Taffy) Ben Vereen (Percival Sr.) Bruce Bruce (Nathan) Patti LaBelle (the Real Angel Davenport) and Ving Rhames (Spats)." Percival (Mr. Benjamin) and Rooster (Mr. Patton) have reached adulthood by going down radically different roads an approach that will be familiar to fans of OutKast well accustomed to its creative dissonance." the film stars André Benjamin and Antwan A. Patton better known as André 3000 and Big Boi of the hip-hop group OutKast playing lifelong friends living and sometimes singing in Depression-era Georgia." the editing invariably reduces the image to confetti-size bits. That’s a shame because the choreographer production designer and costume designer have done nice work even if the women’s nails tend to look more Beverly Hills contemporary than Southern period. Still the real trouble isn’t  the rapidity of the edits; it’s that the editing choices generally lack rhyme and narrative reason. This kind of overediting can murder a mood and undercut a performance turning what should have been an intimate love scene with Percival and Angel for instance into a jumble of shots some only as long as one or two seconds." particularly in pastiches like “Hey Ya!” and “Roses ” damages “Idlewild” beyond repair. Instead of letting a scene play out to the natural ebb and flow of conversation Mr. Barber rushes in moving the camera here and there and seemingly running from a fine cast that also includes Terrence Howard Cicely Tyson and Ving Rhames. Like too many young directors Mr. Barber seems in the grip of a kind of creative attention-deficit disorder caused less by the digital tools at his disposal than the lack of good guidance. Too bad Arthur Freed who produced a number of musical masterpieces for MGM wasn’t around to show him how it’s done and say “Once more from the top....”" 
8081
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/25/movies/25eden.html
Frederic Goodich; edited by Michael Palmerio; music by Ian Whitcomb; production designer Matt Myhall; produced by Lisa Larrivee; released by Good Films Releasing. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 89 minutes. This film is not rated." Gary Gold (Sam Robards) and Maude Silver (Jane Lynch). Gary is a pretentious windbag who gases on about the show’s fidelity to the New Testament. Maude is a coke-snorting maniac who attacks poor Dennis in a hotel room and pleads “Rape me rape me!” as he cowers in terror. Aside from Mr. Panes’s Dennis the performances are much better than the stale undeveloped material." it can devolve into an inept subspecies of the very thing it ridicules. Although the early scenes hold out some promise that Greg Pritikin’s “Surviving Eden ” a parody of “Survivor” in which contestants compete for a million-dollar payday by playing Adam and Eve in a jungle setting could amount to something the movie quickly runs out of ideas." a 320-pound convenience store clerk with a pet pig whose best friend Sterno (Peter Dinklage) submits him as a potential contestant. Why he is chosen and how he makes it to the final rounds remains a mystery. Even after Dennis wins and “goes Hollywood ” blowing his winnings on drugs and hideous clothes Mr. Panes brings no amusing tics to his character — it would take a talent of Peter Sellers’s magnitude to infuse this sad sack with humor." Cheri Oteri (Marie) Jane Lynch (Maude) Sam Robards (Gary) Savannah Haske (Sister Agnes) Peter Dinklage (Sterno) John Landis (Dr. Levine) and Conchata Ferrell (Rosemary Flotchky)." 
8082
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/25/movies/25beer.html
drugs alcohol human beings and small amphibians sometimes all at once." the brothers return a year later with their dream team: a beer-games champ and erstwhile male prostitute (Jay Chandrasekhar who also directs) a hollow-legged chugging machine (Kevin Heffernan) and a lab technician (Steve Lemme) whose specialty is collecting frog ejaculate — a decidedly unscientific process that the movie’s target audience will enjoy almost as much as the frogs do." Kevin Heffernan Steve Lemme Paul Soter and Erik Stolhanske); director of photography Frank G. DeMarco; edited by Lee Haxall; music by Nathan Barr; production designer Clark Hunter; produced by Broken Lizard Bill Gerber and Richard Perello; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 110 minutes." Kevin Heffernan (Landfill) Steve Lemme (Fink) Paul Soter (Jan Wolfhouse) Erik Stolhanske (Todd Wolfhouse) Will Forte (Otto) Ralf Moeller (Hammacher) Eric Christian Olsen (Gunter) Mo’Nique (Cherry) Juergen Prochnow (Baron) Gunter Schlierkamp (Schlemmer) and Cloris Leachman (Great Gam Gam)." ” a gaseous celebration of binge drinking and family honor the five comedians known collectively as Broken Lizard have created a frat-house staple for the ages. The plot — an insanitary blend of hops ram urine and human remains — follows the Wolfhouse brothers (Erik Stolhanske and Paul Soter) to Oktoberfest where they stumble into an underground beer-guzzling contest and abject humiliation at the hands of their German cousins." aggressive Aussies and a pair of Teutonic bingers known as Hammacher and Schlemmer the movie like its characters becomes increasingly incoherent. Fortunately there’s Great Gam Gam (a delicious Cloris Leachman dusting off her Frau Blücher accent from “Young Frankenstein”) the brothers’ steely great-grandmother with the nefarious past. “I always sleep better when I have some sausage in me ” she confides lasciviously stroking a frankfurter. It’s the classiest moment in the movie." 
8083
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/23/movies/23swan.html
” “Mutual Appreciation”) who turns up here in a cameo it skitters to the rhythms of everyday talk building each scene from the erratic pulse of its twentysomething cast." Joe Swanberg (Tim) C. Mason Wells (Chris) Tipper Newton (Walter) Brigid Reagan (Ada) Greta Gerwig (Greta) and Kate Winterich (Tessa)." ” but there’s nothing funny about the movie’s insight into emotional abstraction. Directed by Joe Swanberg from a screenplay written in collaboration with his co-stars Kevin Bewersdorf and C. Mason Wells it tells the story of three post-college Chicagoans with nervous systems so wired their hearts have begun to atrophy." “LOL” is a movie about the way we live  — or rather about the way white urban heterosexual circuit boys are failing to live." but this small-scale microbudget indie speaks the theme with a fresh voice." directed and edited by Joe Swanberg; written by Kevin Bewersdorf Mr. Swanberg and C. Mason Wells; director of photography Mr. Swanberg; music by Mr. Bewersdorf; released by Washington Square Films. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 81 minutes. This film is not rated." whose preoccupation with a girl he meets in cyberspace sabotages his ability to connect to one who shows up nervously flirting in real life." 
8084
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/23/movies/23prin.html
Micaela Nevárez (Zulema) Mariana Cordero (Pilar) Llum Barrera (Gloria) Violeta Pérez (Caren) and Mónica Van Campen (Ángela)." lonely mother. Ms. Nevárez fends off an abusive client. Both try hard to energize the material but there’s only so much to be done under the guidance of a director whose imaginative limitations are suggested by his conception offered in the press kit of the Zulema character: “a princess in exile sweet and swarthy doomed daily by desperation to eat the bitter bread of banishment.”" though he broaches themes of class conflict and the economic basis of racism. His best material  observes the rivalry between a clique of native working girls and the dark-skinned streetwalkers newly arrived on the scene. Otherwise “Princesas” rehearses “hooker with a heart of gold” tropes and indulges Almodóvarian clichés of Spanish spunk and solidarity." a mousy Spaniard saving up for breast implants and Zulema (Micaela Nevárez) a foxy Dominican saving money to send back home. They will bond and squabble over the course of the film in which narrative drive is replaced by an episodic drip of breakdowns soul searching girly behavior (shopping gossip hairdressing) and improbable poetic monologues." “Princesas” is not alas the new film by Pedro Almodóvar but a dilution of his manner by the writer-director Fernando León de Aranoa." with English subtitles) and directed by Fernando León de Aranoa; director of photography Ramiro Civita; edited by Nacho Ruiz Capillas; music by Alfonso de Vilallonga and Manu Chao; art director Llorenç Miquel; produced by Mr. Aranoa and Jaume Roures; released by IFC First Take. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 109 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8085
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/23/movies/23frat.html
Azad (Erdal Celik)  travels to Germany on his big brother’s dime in order to help support their struggling family. The brother Semo (Nurettin Celik) turns out to be a pimp from the old school which means that when he’s not swaggering about and flashing a wad of cash he’s slapping his women upside the head. Azad meanwhile flops in some kind of refuge center and finds work shaving the faces and trimming the nose hairs of the often-inebriated customers of a neighborhood  hangout. It may be unpleasant (he plugs his nostrils with tissues to ward off the smell of his customers) but it’s a living." bad city receives a thorough workout in the foreign-language import “Fratricide.” Written and directed by the Turkish-born German transplant Yilmaz Arslan this crude attempt at a cinematic bildungsroman follows the fleeting ups and lasting downs of a young Kurdish shepherd who upon landing in an unnamed German city endures a succession of increasingly gruesome tribulations. Buddha said that life is suffering; he had no idea." Erdal Celik (Azad) Nurettin Celik (Semo) Bulent Buyukasik (Zeki) Xhiljona Ndoja (Mirka) Taies Farzan (Zilan) and Oral Uyan (Ahmet)." but it apparently bores Mr. Arslan. The everyday struggles of recent immigrants are rife with drama as myriad novels and films illuminate but to turn the story of a young man quietly eking out his living into the stuff of compelling narrative would require storytelling finesse as well as sensitivity to both human desires and frailties. Mr. Arslan evinces little sensitivity either in his filmmaking or toward his characters who in his hands are simply blunt instruments with which to hammer in a brutal worldview. And while the underlying conservatism of that worldview may not be well considered or even remotely thought through it is nakedly evident in his crude vision of the modern European city as a deadly cesspool." say for the virulent macho aggression that infects almost every male character in this film; the creature also pulls out a man’s guts like a kid slurping spaghetti. As repellent as it is ridiculous this unnecessary needlessly graphic scene sets the story and its hapless hero on a further downward spiral. Outrage leads to further violence including the rape of a child that is notably accompanied by the thuds of a hip-hop song. Every so often Mr. Arslan cuts to Kurdistan where a group of women wander the barren landscape a Greek chorus gone astray in a film gone amiss." German and Turkish with English subtitles) and directed by Yilmaz Arslan; director of photography Jean-François Hensgens; edited by André Bendocchi-Alves; music by Evgueni Galperine; production designer Régine Constant; produced by Eric Tavitian Eddy Géradon-Luyckx Donato Rotunno and Mr. Arslan; released by Koch Lorber Films. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 96 minutes. This film is not rated." Azad doesn’t just endure boozy breath and tough beards; he undergoes a crucible of suffering. Along with his brother and his new friend an orphaned Kurdish boy named Ibo (Xewat Gectan) he crosses violent paths with two assimilated Turkish brothers who come equipped with all the accouterments of the thoroughly modern movie gangster including tattoos jewelry bad language a hip-hop soundtrack and a ferocious pit bull. Mr. Arslan may want to say something about the futility of nationalistic feuds like that played out by the Kurdish and Turkish immigrants and maybe even something about the flawed policies of a European host country like Germany. But such thoughtful concerns are simply no match for that snapping snarling pit bull." 
8086
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/19/movies/19snak.html
from a story by Mr. Heffernan and David Dalessandro “Snakes on a Plane” is an effectively blunt instrument. There are snakes and smoke giggles and shrieks slamming edits and lots of goosy lurch-in-your seat moments. Mostly of course there are snakes and Sam. At once hard-working and hardly working Mr. Jackson turns in one of his customary performances meaning that he glowers barks and periodically unleashes a 13-letter epithet the way only he can. The film’s producers originally conceived “Snakes on a Plane” as a PG-13 release but  encouraged by the enthusiasm of an  Internet fan base added enough gore expletives and bosoms to ease the rating a notch higher. It earns its R easily." David R. Ellis whose previous credits include “Cellular” and “Final Destination 2 ” has a lot of fun killing off his cast. One of the disreputable pleasures of films like this is trying to figure out who’s going to make it out alive — the loving couple the kids flying solo the young mother with a cute baby  —  and for the most part Mr. Ellis does a fine job of keeping us guessing even if there isn’t really much suspense involved. We know that the hissing Siamese the yapping Chihuahua and the baby-hating snoot probably won’t be around for the final credits; the only question is how and when these and the other easy targets will end up at the wrong end of a cobra a rattler a python or a mangrove." “Snakes on a Plane” isn’t just about rubber reptiles and Mr. Jackson spewing pearls of profanity; it’s also a solid B-movie-style entertainment crammed with “Boos!” and lightly scented with a whiff of social metaphor. Made on the cheap the film is a self-conscious throwback to disaster flicks of the 1970’s like “Airport” and “Earthquake ” in which small groups of people unite against adversity or in this case a plane full of poisonous snakes hopped up on pheromones. Or as Mr. Jackson’s character a tough-talking-and-walking F.B.I. agent named Neville Flynn spins the setup rather more memorably “Great snakes on crack.”" Julianna Margulies (Claire Miller) Nathan Phillips (Sean Jones) Rachel Blanchard (Mercedes) Flex Alexander (Three G’s) Kenan Thomson (Troy) and Byron Lawson (Eddie Kim)." ” which arrived in theaters yesterday borne  aloft by a savvy publicity blitzkrieg and the enthusiasm of Internet film geeks who embraced its old-school exploitation title. The film was not screened in advance for critics which makes sense not only because the entertainment media are always happy to push films sight unseen (even Jon Stewart shilled for it) but also because all anyone really needs to know about this amusingly crude honestly satisfying artifact is snakes + plane + Samuel L. Jackson." the snakes are on crack and on that plane for the flimsiest of reasons. Zipping through Hawaii’s back roads on a dirt bike Sean Jones (Nathan Phillips) stumbles on the crime kingpin Eddie Kim (Byron Lawson) wielding a baseball bat in a spotless white suit. After witnessing some crushing blows and an artful splatter of blood Sean skedaddles bullets and bad guys hot on his heels. He subsequently lands under the protective watch of the F.B.I. which persuades him to testify against Kim which is how he and Flynn end up on the red-eye to Los Angeles in the company of several dozen character actors and a mess of slithering hissing snapping and squeezing menace." not least because of its scarily timely setting. This is after all “Snakes on a Plane ” not “Snakes on a Greyhound Bus.” But unlike “Flightplan” and “Red Eye ” two other recent airborne thrillers “Snakes on a Plane” is less about surviving on airplanes than wresting control of them. In other words it’s “United 93” without the tears. The filmmakers don’t overplay the political angle though they do squeeze in a Middle Eastern snake and a scene of an F.B.I. agent sneering about the A.C.L.U. Mostly though what they give us is the chance to win not with righteous morality but with an old-fashioned swagger that says much like the film itself Hey we may be stupid but we rock." Adam Greenberg; edited by Howard Smith; production designer Jaymes Hinkle; snake handler Jules Sylvester; produced by Gary L. Levinsohn Don Granger and Craig Berenson; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 105 minutes." and this film has them all. Not long after the seatbelt lights turn off the rubber computer-generated and (several hundred) live snakes slither into the main cabin where they proceed to sink fangs into faces necks limbs torsos one bared and bountiful female breast and the unseen organ of a male passenger who forgets the No. 1 rule of using strange restrooms: check the toilet bowl. Naughty by nature or perhaps more by design these snakes don’t just dart out of toilets; they also slide up bare legs and under dresses moving in and out of every imaginable orifice." 
8087
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/19/movies/19mate.html
Haylie Duff (Ava Marchetta) Anjelica Huston  (Fabiella) Brent Spiner (Tommy) Maria Conchita Alonso (Inez) Lukas Haas (Henry) Marcus Coloma (Rick) Obba Babatundé (Craig) and Faith Prince (Pam)." such as it is basically involves a lot of wardrobe changes and  product placements (the Sidekick cellphone deserves its own  billing) a smidgen of intrigue and some chaste romance. Lukas Haas is paired with Haylie while Marcus Coloma ends up with Hilary. Every so often Brent Spiner  breezes onto the tacky-looking sets to help advance the plot or trade banalities with the other equally beleaguered-looking cast members including Anjelica Huston as the owner of a competing  business.  Hey even Hollywood royalty have to pay the bills as do directors like Martha Coolidge whose best film remains the 1983 comedy “Valley Girl ” with a very young Nicolas Cage. It’s out on DVD; check it out." Amy Rardin and Jessica O’Toole; director of photography Johnny E. Jensen; edited by Steven Cohen; music by Jennie Muskett; production designer James Spencer; produced by Susan Duff Eve Ladue David Faigenblum Milton Kim Mark Morgan Guy Oseary and Tim Wesley; released by MGM Pictures. Running time: 97 minutes." Tanzie (that would be Hilary) and Ava (Haylie) the faces and would-be heirs to the cosmetics company founded by their dear departed dad. Not yet legal and apparently never educated the sisters live with a fleet of happy helpers whose numbers include their devoted surrogate mother Inez (Maria Conchita Alonso). The real thing is living abroad under an assumed name and frankly who can blame her? Her daughters aren’t just spoiled rotten; they’re nitwits." 
8088
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/18/movies/18illu.html
and “The Illusionist ” at least until its frantic final moments is smart enough not to lose its cool and to stay out of the way of the entrancing yarn it spins." Eisenheim (now played by Mr. Norton) returns to Vienna in command of an astonishing bag of tricks. Sophie (Jessica Biel) is now the fiancée of the ruthless arrogant Crown Prince Leopold (Rufus Sewell) who is scheming to become emperor. When he and Sophie attend an Eisenheim performance she volunteers to be a stage assistant." based on the short story “Eisenheim the Illusionist” by Steven Millhauser; director of photography Dick Pope; edited by Naomi Geraghty; music by Philip Glass; production designer Ondrej Nekvasil; produced by Michael London Brian Koppelman David Levien Bob Yari and Cathy Schulman; released by Yari Film Group. Running time: 109 minutes." the prince is a dashing scary control freak who flies into Hitlerian rages when crossed. During one of those tantrums he commits a murder the investigation of which proves the ultimate test of Uhl’s character." talking ghosts he attracts a growing cult whose members believe he is a miracle worker and harbinger of a “spiritual republic.” This mystique further infuriates and threatens Leopold who becomes obsessed with exposing Eisenheim as a fraud." who finds himself caught between an irresistible force and an immovable object is a bracing change of pace for Mr. Giamatti who invests Uhl with a gravitas that carries whiffs of Orson Welles and Claude Rains." religious and historical implications “The Illusionist ” filmed in sepia prefers to let them lie. This entertaining movie is content to be something a bit more modest: a pungent period folk tale that teases you until the very end." Eisenheim takes the prince’s sword balances it on its tip on the floor evokes the myth of Excalibur and invites soldiers in the audience to remove it. The prince succeeds but only after Eisenheim lifts the spell." the sheltered daughter of aristocrats who disapprove of Eisenheim. The sweethearts carry on a passionate secret friendship until they are discovered together and torn apart." and Eisenheim notices she is still wearing a locket he gave her with his photo in it. Their old bond flares and soon they begin a clandestine affair." Paul Giamatti (Chief Inspector Uhl) Jessica Biel (Sophie) Rufus Sewell (Crown Prince Leopold) and Aaron Johnson (Young Eisenheim)." in his heart of hearts longs to believe in magic. That’s why Neil Burger’s film “The Illusionist ” which tells the story of Eisenheim (Edward Norton) a fictional conjurer who enraptured Viennese audiences in 1900 rouses your slumbering belief in the miraculous." dry speaking voice an ideal instrument for conveying an ominous inner deadness. Throughout the movie Eisenheim remains a man of mystery whose few carefully chosen words project a wary possibly phony omniscience." Sophie begs him to make the two of them disappear but his magic fails." when Eisenheim makes an orange tree sprout from a seed and bear fruit and a ghost materialize then fade into vapor your atavistic inner voice whines “Please let it be so ” even as your mind struggles to figure out how it was done." Eisenheim (Aaron Johnson) the son of a carpenter has a chance encounter with a traveling sorcerer-like old man whose wondrous tricks inspire him to  pursue magic." the prince’s hand-picked chief of police. Uhl is ordered to uncover the secrets behind Eisenheim’s indecipherable magic after the magician boasts that he can make the prince disappear." it doesn’t much matter." “Eisenheim the Illusionist ” gives Mr. Norton a role that perfectly fits his disturbing inscrutability. His face with obsidian eyes that take in everything but reflect nothing and a tight little mouth is an impenetrable mask of either innocence or cunning; you’re never sure which. Only the corners of his eyes glint like icicles." since the movies themselves are larger-than-life illusions projected through thin air especially in the age of computer-generated special effects when every image is susceptible to endless manipulation. But the surreal spiritualist feats Eisenheim executes undiluted by obvious cinematographic embellishment still produce a wow effect on the screen because they have an aesthetic elegance that transcends trickery. Even if they’re fake they look like works of art." 
8089
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/18/movies/18fact.html
as sign or guiding principle is nowhere to be found in “Factotum ” and there isn’t a palm tree in sight. Shot in a seedy forlorn Minneapolis far from that city’s green-canopied streets and Prairie School architecture the film was directed by the wonderfully named Bent Hamer a Norwegian whose earlier features include the deadpan comedy “Kitchen Stories.” Working with the producer Jim Stark Mr. Hamer adapted the screenplay from the 1975 novel of the same title with snippets from three other more characteristically Bukowskian sounding volumes: “The Days Run Away Like Wild Horses Over the Hills” and the posthumous “What Matters Most Is How Well You Walk Through the Fire” and “The Captain Is Out to Lunch and the Sailors Have Taken Over the Ship.”" or at least working too hard for other people. (Bukowski himself toiled for the Postal Service for more than a decade.) To that end he takes a succession of menial jobs that require him to polish the vainglorious décor of a newspaper building (he holds out hope briefly for a job as a reporter) jackhammer ice and sort pickles. He does all of this with degrees of competency and just enough interest to keep him from collapsing into a stupor though on occasion he does drop into the nearest bar. There in a flood of alcohol he casts a bloodshot eye on the adjoining flotsam and jetsam taking notes on the human condition." “Factotum” presents the age-old struggle of man against mediocrity. Henry Chinaski (Mr. Dillon) Bukowski’s familiar alter ego is the heroic survivor of countless benders brawls rejection slips crazy women and soul-killing mind-deadening jobs. Or as he puts it so nicely in the novel: “How in the hell could a man enjoy being awakened at 6:30 a.m. by an alarm clock leap out of bed dress force-feed”  — there is naturally a scatological dimension to this list  —  “brush teeth and hair and fight traffic to get to a place where essentially you made lots of money for somebody else and were asked to be grateful for the opportunity to do so?”" based on the novel by Charles Bukowski; director of photography John Christian Rosenlund; edited by Pal Gengenbach; music by Kristin Asbjornsen; production designer Eve Cauley Turner; produced by Mr. Stark and Mr. Hamer; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 94 minutes." Lili Taylor (Jan) Marisa Tomei (Laura) Fisher Stevens (Manny) Didier Flamand (Pierre) Adrienne Shelly (Jerry) Karen Young (Grace) and Tom Lyons (Tony Endicott)." though as played by Mr. Dillon and interpreted by Mr. Hamer he does wallow magnificently and often rather hilariously. “Factotum” is a film about the horrors and occasional comedy of work as well as gutting through life on your own terms which in Bukowski’s case meant turning both that horror and that comedy into literature. Even now more than a decade after his death and well along into his canonization there remains something genuinely liberating about his refusal to join the clock-puncher’s lockstep. Subversive might not be the right word with which to characterize his commitment to his art his muse his hip flask and the Big No as in no to the straight and narrow no to the clean and tidy. But it does have a nice ring." and you could get a contact high from the alcohol fumes." beautiful  world of Charles Bukowski has proved catnip to European filmmakers and a few American actors happy to go along for the rough ride: Ben Gazzara Mickey Rourke and now Matt Dillon. Bukowski’s own story (his parents moved to Los Angeles from Germany when he was 3) clearly holds attraction for certain creative types as do all his tales of ordinary  madness. That many of those stories take place in Los Angeles may be particularly seductive since few images telegraph the paradox of the American dream better than a drunk passed out in the shadow of Hollywood." Mr. Dillon’s performance works through understatement. It’s easy to go big with Bukowski the way that Barbet Schroeder did in his 1987 film “Barfly ” in which a freewheeling Mickey Rourke plays a skid-row Puck in a theater of the damned. There are intimations of soul amid this film’s bloody grins and barstool gargoyles but what it lacks is an appreciation for Bukowski’s tenderness for those sighs of feeling that rise up when life is this hard but the soul enduring it has not hardened in turn. Mr. Dillon’s phrasing carries the weight of such feeling as does the hypnotically slowed gestures that give him the aspect of a man sitting at the bottom of a pool and thinking about drowning." even when he could barely hold down a job sending out manuscripts and collecting for many lean years rejection notices. In “Factotum” Mr. Hamer shows us Henry coiled over a dimly lighted table pressing his pen hard into sheets of paper as the words float on the soundtrack. Mr. Dillon wearing a beard and the flushed cheeks of a committed lush sounds as persuasive as he looks. Whether he’s nuzzling another drunk (Lili Taylor and Marisa Tomei take turns baring necks and psyches) or swapping philosophies with another shirker (Fisher Stevens) the actor delivers much of his dialogue with the hushed deliberation of a man who spends a lot of time in his head which makes sense given the company he generally keeps." 
8090
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/18/movies/18wolf.html
who doesn’t seem to belong to the family the men are raging foul-mouthed beasts who exact revenge with the sadistic relish that Brian De Palma’s “Scarface” made into a mob movie imperative. Early on a one-legged sociopath (Dash Mihok) bludgeons another man to a pulp with his prosthesis. If you can’t technically fault the hot-wired performance of Mr. Ribisi as a rising mob boss his character amounts to little more than a reheated Joe Pesci-Harvey Keitel stereotype." Minneapolis Dallas Philadelphia and Atlantic City and Voorhees N.J." “10th and Wolf” is the directorial debut of Bobby Moresco a writer and producer of “Crash.” It desperately wants to matter in the same way that its Academy Award-winning forerunner tried to matter: by trafficking in a blunt populist morality that insists we’re all in this mess together. The mess in this case isn’t the stew of simmering ethnic and class antagonisms addressed in “Crash ” but a pervasive feeling that there’s not much difference nowadays between the good guys and the bad; everyone is tainted." violence and gore." Giovanni Ribisi (Joey) Brad Renfro (Vincent) Piper Perabo (Brandy) Dennis Hopper (Matello) Lesley Ann Warren (Aunt Tina) Brian Dennehy (Horvath) Dash Mihok (Junior) Tommy Lee (Jimmy Tatts) Val Kilmer (Murtha) Ken Garito (Willy) and Francesco Salvi (Reggio)." the screenplay crams all the information about its characters’ backgrounds and the neighborhood history into its first 20 minutes. As the consequences of this rushed introduction play out you are at a loss to recall the details shoehorned into that gory lump of exposition." it falls back on mob family values to provide whatever sympathy it can scrounge up for its lowlifes. The movie is full of the usual scenes of hugging grieving and vowing of loyalty that signal that these people have feelings too: operatic ones." “10th and Wolf” gives it a meretricious new twist. Without thinking very hard it compares America’s exit from the first Persian Gulf war to gangster morality in a shabby neighborhood of an Eastern industrial city. That comparison doesn’t add up except in the mind of the movie’s putative hero Tommy Santoro (James Marsden). In a solemn voice-over narration he analogizes his reaction to the United States withdrawal from the gulf in 1991 to his traumatic disillusionment at age 12 when his father was shot dead on the front lawn. It was then that he realized that his beloved dad was a mobster who probably deserved what he got." its only male character with a glimmer of nobility. (The women are the usual long-suffering silent partners who know too much and occasionally erupt in hysterical fits.) A handsome tarnished angel Tommy the one member of his family not caught up in a life of crime returns to his hometown in 1991 after serving as a Marine in the gulf. Initially gung-ho to fight the good fight he decided that the war made no sense when Saddam Hussein was left in power. Running amok he stole a jeep beat up an officer and served time in the brig." he stays with his aunt Tina (Lesley Ann Warren) and exerts a good influence on his dimwitted younger brother Vincent (a dissipated-looking Brad Renfro). Almost immediately he is accosted by Horvath (Brian Dennehy) a hulking corrupt F.B.I. agent who threatens to put him in prison for years unless he infiltrates the family business and wears a wire to record negotiations between his cousin Joey (Giovanni Ribisi) and a Mafia drug lord (Francesco Salvi) moving in on family territory." filmed in Pittsburgh is loosely based on real events that occurred in Philadelphia in the 1980’s and early 90’s its particular circle of urban hell is an unidentified hybrid of the two cities. Filmed in shades of brown and gray and slathered in blood its world is as drab and menacing as that of “Donnie Brasco.” In a diabolical touch mob colloquies take place in a giant meatpacking cellar amid the hanging carcasses." a half-baked love story wobbles into view as Tommy connects with Brandy (Piper Perabo) a beautiful embittered bartender in the seedy stripper club run by her husband’s killer Willie (Ken Garito). She and Willy coexist warily until a showdown on top of the bar that begins as an attempted rape and explodes into ultraviolence." Alex Nepomniaschy; edited by Harvey Rosenstock; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer Rando Schmook; produced by Leo Rossi and Joe Murphy; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 110 minutes." 
8091
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/18/movies/18trus.html
Tim Orr; edited by John Gilroy; music by Clint Mansell; production designer Kevin Thompson; produced by Tim Perell Mr. Freundlich and Sidney Kimmel; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 101 minutes." even in film. That helps explain why an opening credit sequence that invokes Woody Allen’s “Manhattan ” though without the shimmering imagery (or the eventual payoff of midcareer Allen) is a bad idea. It also explains why opening a film with a small child straining on a toilet and talking about poop isn’t just a bad idea; it’s an invitation to unfortunate metaphor." ” on the other hand assumes that it has something the audience wants to buy. It’s an assumption that leaves a lot of talented actors hanging the exception being James Le Gros who makes a very funny regrettably brief appearance as a would-be Lothario who turns a rueful caress of his mustache into an epic of smut." “Trust the Man” lacks urgency and purpose; you never get a sense of why this story had to be made much less shared. With its loud noises and costly effects the typical Hollywood blockbuster at least tries to sell itself (and more films like it) to the audience." but she too is poorly served by Mr. Freundlich’s unfunny unfocused screenplay which basically stitches together a series of short scenes of four people whining in various combinations. Throughout the whining Tom wears a small amused smile that suggests he’s in on some cosmic joke though it may just be that Mr. Duchovny knows that when you play what looks like the director’s surrogate you can’t help but come out ahead. Tom makes his wife weep a little and doesn’t share her limelight but he turns out to be a great guy with hidden talents just waiting to be revealed. The final scene is meant to show those talents in full bloom but everything that has come before suggests they died on the vine." Julianne Moore (Rebecca) Billy Crudup (Tobey) Maggie Gyllenhaal (Elaine) James Le Gros (Dante) Eva Mendes (Faith) Ellen Barkin (Norah) and Garry Shandling (Dr. Beekman)." but their kind of self-love leaves no room for outsiders. What it does leave room for are her brother Tobey (Billy Crudup) and his girlfriend Elaine (Maggie Gyllenhaal) the couple’s unmarried best friends who are experiencing their own relationship pains partly because she seems to hear her biological clock ticking and partly because he’s a jerk.  Elaine and Tobey are in meltdown because Mr. Freundlich subscribes to the theory that every Lucy-and-Ricky needs its Ethel-and-Fred a cruder version of itself to mirror its ecstasies and agonies no matter how banal. To that end Elaine and Tobey ape their better-groomed pals while screeching and rattling the cage in which Mr. Freundlich has placed them. He also lights them badly." flatulent relationship comedy about two couples only one of which proves of interest to its writer and director Bart Freundlich perhaps because the woman in that couple is played by his own wife Julianne Moore. She’s Rebecca a film actress about to take the theatrical plunge at Lincoln Center. Rebecca is married to Tom (David Duchovny) who has ditched a lucrative advertising gig to trundle their little girl around town and flirt with a single mother lurking at his son’s school. Rebecca and Tom live in a West Village townhouse filled with light and tasteful appointments. Every so often they have sex; once a year they visit a therapist (Garry Shandling having fun). They’re vaguely dissatisfied and crushingly dull." 
8092
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/18/movies/18push.html
with English subtitles) and directed by Nicolas Winding Refn; director of photography Morten Soborg; edited by Anne Osterud and Janus Billeskov Jansen; music by Peter Peter; production designer Rasmus Thjellesen; produced by Henrik Danstrup; released by Magnolia Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 96 minutes. This film is not rated." a casualty of his buddy’s furious desperation Tonny survives and is resurrected as the antihero of “Pusher II: With Blood on My Hands.” We pick up his story in jail and wince as he’s promptly served a fresh beating by the inmates. Once paroled his skull a Frankenstein quilt of scars and tattoos Tonny goes cruising for more bruising." Zlatko Buric (Milo) Mads Mikkelsen (Tonny) Laura Drasbaek (Vic) Slavko Labovic (Radovan) Peter Andersson (Hasse) and Anja Bajicic (Branko)." Ilyas Agac (Little Mohammed) Marinela Dekic (Milena) Kujtim Loki (Luan) Ramadan Huseini (Rexho) Slavko Labovic (Radovan) and Vasilije Bojicic (Branco)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Refn and Jens Dahl; director of photography Morten Soborg; edited by Anne Osterud; music by Peter Peter and Povl Kristian; art direction Kim Lovetand Julebaek; produced by Henrik Danstrup; released by Magnolia Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 105 minutes. This film is not rated." for which he has promised to cook for 50 guests a task seriously derailed by the unexpected appearance of 10 000 hits of Ecstasy. Gripped in a nightmare of multitasking and increasingly strung out on drugs Milo maneuvers against a new generation of pushers — and the villains in his soul." a pungent dose of Denmark rot. Written and directed by Nicolas Winding Refn this tough trio of underworld thrillers sticks so close to its rogues’  gallery of gangsters suckers and murderous megalomaniacs that you can almost taste the hate and smell the stomach wounds. Given an appetite for grisly crime flicks they make for a delectably nasty epic." Leif Sylvester Petersen (Smeden) Anne Sorensen (Charlotte) Kurt Nielsen (Kusse Kurt) Oyvind Hagen-Traberg (O) Maria Erwolter (Gry) and Karsten Schroder (Rode)." inevitable end with a sequence that renders men into meat a thing to be bought butchered consumed and expelled. A word to the squeamish: it does this most literally. The “Pusher” films pull no punch. They’re a knockout." the  first “Pusher” traced the downward spiral of a petty thug named Frank (Kim Bodnia) as he scrambled to make things right with Milo (Zlatko Buric) a superbad kingpin. Frank’s fate went unresolved at the end of the picture (Mr. Refn excels at the ambivalent finale) while that of his sidekick Tonny (Mads Mikkelsen) seemed certain there being only so much bludgeoning a head can handle." with his icy father Smeden (Leif Sylvester Petersen) offering shady business opportunities and intolerable acrimony. Plus there’s a newborn son courtesy of a former fling with zero mothering skills but a great talent for snorting cocaine. Once more the walls close in options are squeezed and the conclusion is indeterminate but the material has matured. Where “Pusher” worked fresh texture and authenticity into a classic noir template “Pusher II” reaches toward the mode of hyperrealist allegory perfected by the Dardenne brothers. Tonny’s tale is kin to and might well have been called “The Child.”" with English subtitles) and directed by Nicolas Winding Refn; director of photography Morten Soborg; edited by Anne Osterud and Miriam Norgaard; music by Peter Peter; production designer Rasmus Thjellesen; produced by Henrik Danstrup; released by Magnolia Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 102 minutes. This film is not rated." the talk so assured the performances so disciplined and the fear so fearsome that Mr. Refn’s final iteration of his pattern achieves the hard bright light of an archetype from hell." 
8093
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/18/movies/18post.html
Luke Geissbuhler Wolfgang Held and William Rexer; edited by Trevor Ristow and Mr. Tucker; music by Mark Garcia; production designer Douglas Hall; produced by Dolly Hall Jeff Campagna and Rebecca Chaiklin; released by Regent Releasing/Here! Films. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 98 minutes." women making do and a stripper making a living." “Poster Boy” is a plodding indictment of extreme conservative intolerance. The screenwriters Ryan Shiraki and Lecia Rosenthal unfortunately are better preachers than dramatists juggling plot contrivances in a desperate effort to bring everyone together for the big reveal. Mr. Newton soldiers gamely through his soapbox dialogue but it’s difficult to feel sorry for Henry when he’s having so much fun feeling sorry for himself." Michael Lerner (Jack Kray) Jack Noseworthy (Anthony) Matt Newton (Henry Kray) Valerie Geffner (Izzy) and Ian Reed Kessler (Skip Franklin)." “Poster Boy” unspools like a humorless lecture on right-wing homophobia. Jack Kray (Michael Lerner) is a Jesse Helms-style senator whose meek wife (Karen Allen) seeks solace from his bullying in booze and shopping. Their closeted gay son Henry (Matt Newton) finds his own relief in furtive one-night-stands. But as Jack slaps Henry around at the breakfast table you know filial rebellion is brewing." “Poster Boy” isn’t nearly as edgy as it thinks it is. The movie’s poster declares “The Conservative Agenda now has a Gay Son”; but it already has at least one gay daughter and the heavens have not fallen on Dick Cheney (at least not for siring a lesbian)." 
8094
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/18/movies/18moon.html
“Moonlight” addresses them fearlessly and with some artistry. The Dutch director Paula van der Oest whose “Zus & Zo” was nominated for a foreign-language Oscar in 2003 is exploring more than just youthful recklessness. In Claire an abandoned child before her adoption the director suggests the veneer of civilization is a thin one and that eventually blood will out." “Moonlight” resembles nothing so much as a fevered fairy tale. Wandering in the forests of Luxembourg like Hansel and Gretel the children (both actors were 13 at the time of filming) invent their own language engage in a symbolic sylvan wedding and sample the condom-wrapped merchandise. Their idyll is short-lived but in their innocence and daring the movie finds a hypnotic balance of poignancy and energy anchored by Ms. Van den Broeck’s astonishingly self-assured performance. She’s like a Belgian Dakota Fanning if Ms. Fanning ever decided to go Method." Hunter Bussemaker (the Boy) Andrew Howard (the Gang Leader) Jemma Redgrave (the Mother) and Johan Leysen (the Father)." ” the passage from childhood to adulthood is represented with photogenic explicitness as two 13-year-olds are quite literally bound by blood. When a menstruating Claire (Laurien Van den Broeck) finds a bleeding Afghan boy (Hunter Bussemaker) in her garden shed she dresses his bullet wound with a sanitary napkin and hides him from her concert pianist mother (Jemma Redgrave) and psychiatrist father (Johan Leysen). Not until the feces-covered packets of heroin — and a lurking stranger — make their appearance does Claire realize why her new friend is so scared." Guido van Gennep; music by Fons Merkies; production designer Harry Ammerlaan; produced by Emjay Rechsteiner; released by Indican Pictures. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8095
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/18/movies/18ghos.html
but she has bitten off enough here for a 10-hour television series. (A former actress who played the oldest daughter in “The Searchers ” Ms. Scott produced a “Frontline” film on Radovan Karadzic.) King Leopold would be enough for one documentary as would Patrice Lumumba and Mobutu Sese Seko both of whom are too quickly crammed into the film’s overloaded visually chaotic two hours. The flurry of archival photographs maps paintings quotations and far too many unidentified film clips both archival and of recent vintage fiction and nonfiction overwhelm rather than elucidate. The voices of Don Cheadle who provides some of the narration and Alfre Woodard and James Cromwell each reading historical documents in accented English just prove distracting." the subject of another recent documentary “Congo: White King Red Rubber Black Death ” remains shocking. In the mid-1880’s with the help of the explorer Henry Morton Stanley and the approval of the world’s leading powers Leopold seized a swath of Africa (then the Congo Free State now the Democratic Republic of Congo) more than 76 times the size of Belgium turning it into a personal capitalist venture. Using a large private army whose numbers included Congolese orphans the king and his agents squeezed the land of its resources slaughtering elephants for ivory tapping trees for rubber. The Congolese were uprooted separated enslaved whipped and mutilated (hands were cut off sometimes for accounting purposes) leaving as many as 10 million dead." the producer and first-time director Pippa Scott has enlisted a legion of talking heads to help tell a story of insatiable greed and unimaginable terror. Among those tapped for their expertise are academics historians Congolese elders and for some reason the memoirist Frank McCourt. Mr. Hochschild proves particularly effective since he gets right to it: “What made it possible for Congo state officials to deal out all this pain and terror? Race.”" with the voices of Alfre Woodard and James Cromwell; edited by Oreet Rees; music by Yoav Goren; released by Linden Productions. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 108 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8096
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/18/movies/18acce.html
he personified the hipness ease of use and smirking superiority of the company by wearing Vans and poking fun at a stuffy virus-prone nerd in a suit (i.e. the PC)." in “Accepted ” which with all its glowing Apple logos functions as a feature-length Mac advertisement Mr. Long further commodifies his dissent in that most oxymoronic of genres the Hollywood comedy about sticking it to the man. He is Bartleby a clever slacker rejected from college who with the help of a geek (Jonah Hill) a babe (Maria Thayer) a weirdo (Adam Herschman) and a token black guy (Columbus Short) invents his own university in order to bamboozle his parents and bond with his fellow outcasts." breast ogling and off-color talk." Jonah Hill (Sherman Schrader) Blake Lively (Monica) Maria Thayer (Rory) Anthony Heald (Dean Van Horne) Adam Herschman (Glen) Columbus Short (Hands) and Lewis Black (Uncle Ben)." Bumper Stickers Wingman-ing and a surprisingly effective course in How to Blow Stuff Up With Your Mind. Soon enough the uptight yes men of Harmon University start sniffing around and unleash the inevitable showdown between righteous Bartleby and the powers that be." Bill Collage and Mark Perez based on a story by Mr. Perez; director of photography Matthew F. Leonetti; edited by Scott Hill; music by David Schommer; production designer Rusty Smith; produced by Tom Shadyac and Michael Bostick; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 90 minutes." ” but it’s a disappointing debut for the director Steve Pink. Best known for his savvy contribution to the scripts for “Grosse Pointe Blank” and “High Fidelity ” Mr. Pink does what he can with a screenplay by others keeping his pep in a dumbed-down context and applying his good nature to half-hearted nonsense." 
8097
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/17/movies/17rock.html
Mr. Lennon’s tough-love valentine to the motherland retains interest for its historical perspective sardonic tone lively structure and finely etched black-and-white cinematography by the legendary Raoul Coutard." ” an essay on Irish independence or what passes for it by the filmmaker Peter Lennon. The movie opens today at Anthology Film Archives following its premiere at the Cannes Film Festival  —  in 1968." “Rocky Road” was the last film publicly screened at that fractious event before it was shut down by filmmakers in solidarity with the student and labor protests then raging in Paris. (Scenes from the festival are featured in a “making of” companion piece on the current program.)" the documentary deploys a terse sarcastic commentary over its montage of daily life and interviews." ” runs a characteristically dry observation “the solution for social problems was to go and have a few drinks.” Mr. Lennon finds “the close involvement of Irish politicians with the clergy is not so much a villainous conspiracy as a bad habit.” Other topics include censorship bad education the mating rituals of bourgeois teenagers and the banning of “English” games like soccer and cricket." Raoul Coutard; edited by Lila Biro Philippe Delesalle and Guy Delooz; music by the Dubliners with Luke Kelly; produced by Victor Herbert; restoration produced by Se Merry Doyle at Loopline Film; released by First Run/Icarus Films. Playing with Paul Duane’s 27-minute documentary “The Making of the Rocky Road to Dublin” at the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 69 minutes. These films are not rated." 
8098
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/12/movies/12zoom.html
Courteney Cox (Marsha Holloway) Chevy Chase (Dr. Grant) Spencer Breslin (Tucker) Rip Torn (General Larraby) Kate Mara (Summer) Ryan Newman (Cindy) and Michael Cassidy (Dylan)." off-the-rack costumes and off-the-scale monotony." based on a story by Mr. Rifkin and the book “Zoom’s Academy” by Jason Lethcoe; director of photography David Tattersall; edited by Lawrence Jordan; music by Christophe Beck; production designer Barry Chusid; produced by Suzanne Todd Jennifer Todd and Todd Garner; released by Revolution Studios and Columbia Pictures. Running time: 83 minutes." “Zoom” can’t afford to spend the first 60 hanging around in a government building while Mr. Allen delivers one-liners as exhausted as his demeanor. Equally dire comedic highlights are provided by Courteney Cox as a nerdy psychoanalyst who falls over a lot and a fat kid (Spencer Breslin) whose superpower is the ability to make himself including his bodily fluids swell at will. Luckily there are people out there who find giants balls of mucus absolutely hilarious." he is now playing Jack Shepard a k a Captain Zoom a washed-up superhero called back into service to train a group of gifted kids. Apparently a “pandimensional anomaly” is headed for Earth along with Jack’s gamma-irradiated evil brother Concussion (Kevin Zeggers). Based on acting styles alone the brothers must have switched places before the Superhero Naming Board." “Zoom” bleeds boredom from every frame. The younger cast members work hard but no superpower on earth can neutralize Mr. Allen’s weary shtick." ” the release of “Zoom” will be a blessing. For the other 99 percent of humanity not so much." 
8099
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/12/movies/12puls.html
replaced by an unknown named Jim Sonzero whose witless direction feels understandably exhausted given the circumstances. Perhaps the delay was the result of the producers’  working up the nerve to demand that posters of their other movies (“Chicago ” “Sin City”) be prominently displayed in the production design." our bimbo heroine can do to stop it but rather what took this remake so long. Bob and Harvey Weinstein acquired “Kairo” when its technophobic premise still felt timely and then suppressed its theatrical release so that Wes Craven could make a remake. (In 2005 Magnolia Pictures acquired the rights to the original and released it.)" kill themselves and are menaced by evil screensavers." Ian Somerhalder (Dexter) Christina Milian (Isabell) Rick Gonzalez (Stone) Samm Levine (Tim) and Ron Rifkin (Dr. Waterson)." based on the film “Kairo ” written and directed by Kiyoshi Kurosawa; director of photography Mark Plummer; edited by Bob Mori Robert K. Lambert and Kirk Morri; music by Elia Cmiral; production designer Gary Matteson; produced by Joel Soisson Michael Leahy Brian Cox and Anant Singh; released by Dimension Films. Running time: 87 minutes." ” which feature a blurb  declaring it “unlike any horror film you’ve seen before or will ever see!” Leaving aside the abundant precedent for such barrel-bottom junk and the fact that you’ll surely see more of its kind the film is a remake — a remake! — of the 2001 cult hit “Kairo” by Kiyoshi Kurosawa." although it does mimic the plot fundamentals  (ghosts seep through the Internet; teenagers freak out; the world comes to an end) and several visual ideas (spooky streaming video; bright red tape used to ward off spirits). Gone however are any traces of Mr. Kurosawa’s creepy minimalism and conceptual rigor the combination of which suggested any  movie Michelangelo Antonioni might have made were he reincarnated as a Japanese horror maestro with an AOL account." 
8100
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/12/movies/12kabh.html
a rising soccer star who suffers a career-ending injury. He is unhappily married to Rhea (Preity Zinta) but meets the lovely Maya (Rani Mukherji) an ice princess whose husband (Abhishek Bachchan son of the Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan) can never quite manage to defrost her. Soon Dev is lovestruck and who can blame him: Ms. Mukherji’s eye makeup which we get to observe in detail is much better than Ms. Zinta’s." Shah Rukh Khan (Dev) Abhishek Bachchan (Rishi) Rani Mukherji (Maya) Preity Zinta (Rhea) and Kirron Kher (Kamaljit)." shampoo commercials and early MTV. But those looking for subtlety and sophistication should not have wandered into this film in the first place. As for the story’s central lovers it’s never quite clear what Maya sees in Dev whose emotional switch has only two settings angry and morose. Perhaps that eye makeup is clouding her vision." however the film is surprisingly engaging thanks largely to its very watchable actors; it’s easy to see why they are international stars in the world of Hindi films. And the movie is a clear departure from the genre’s usual happily-ever-after. If the marriage isn’t working it says unmistakably divorce is the answer." whose native inhabitants are often turned into buffoons by Mr. Johar payback perhaps for Hollywood depictions of foreigners over the last century. The director actually displays a fine comic touch in a series of ridiculous scenes: at a kiddie  soccer match in a bed store at the opera. And there is some droll banter between Mr. Bachchan and his father Amitabh who plays the same familial role in the film." with English subtitles) by Shibani Bathija; director of photography Anil Mehta; edited by Sanjay Sankla; music by Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy lyrics by Javed Akhtar; art director Sharmishta Roy; produced by Hiroo Johar; released by Yash Raj Films. In Manhattan at the ImaginAsian Theater 239 East 59th Street. Running time: 200 minutes. This film is not rated." a giant-size love story that aspires to be “Gone With the Wind” but without the Civil War. It is full of big Bollywood stars and outsized everything: the rainstorms are a little rainier than real life; the wind machines are cranked up an extra notch; the close-ups get closer and linger longer than usual; the coincidences that drive the plot are a little more numerous and unlikely than normal screenwriting allows. And those song-and-dance extravaganzas!" 
8101
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/11/movies/11hous.html
the title of “House of Sand” is an understatement. This lovely film directed by Andrucha Waddington (“Me You Them”) takes place in a corner of northern Brazil that is a veritable universe of dry swirling white dust. Like the main characters — three women of successive generations exiled from a softer more accommodating life in the city —  you grow accustomed to this landscape after a while and come to appreciate its beauty. But at first it seems about as hospitable as the surface of Mars:   gritty windy almost actively hostile to human habitation." Fernanda Torres (Áurea/Maria) Ruy Guerra (Vasco de Sá) Seu Jorge and Luiz Melodia (Massu) Enrique Diaz and Stênio Garcia (Luiz)." “House of Sand” is not without its share of human grandeur since it stars Fernanda Montenegro and Fernanda Torres a mother and a daughter who happen to be among the national treasures of Brazilian cinema. They undertake not just two performances but a suite the harmonies and counterpoints of which are both subtle and breathtaking." who brilliantly evoked the dry brown Brazilian backlands in “Me You Them ” brings out the psychological nuances of the story (the script is by Elena Soárez) even as he respects its bold primal emotions and the almost classical dignity of the main characters. At first “House of Sand” may seem like a stark tale of survival but a surprisingly lush and colorful romance blossoms in its bleak and gorgeous desert setting." with English subtitles) by Elena Soárez based on a story by Luiz Carlos Barreto Ms. Soárez and Mr. Waddington; director of photography Ricardo Della Rosa; edited by Sérgio Mekler; music by Carlo Bartolini and João Barone; production designer Tulé Peake; produced by Leonardo Monteiro de Barros Pedro Buarque de Hollanda Pedro Guimarães and Mr. Waddington; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 115 minutes." Ricardo Della Rosa use a wide-screen format and long angled shots to capture the harsh sublimity of this desert where the sand is relieved by strips of vegetation and an occasional glimpse of the nearby ocean. The land is such a presence in the film that it almost takes on the status of a character. It’s not just the setting for the struggles of the women but an active agent in their destinies and the object of their loathing their terror and ultimately their love." a weary matriarch accompanying her pregnant daughter Áurea (Ms. Torres) on a trek into the middle of nowhere. The year is 1910 and Áurea is following her monomaniacal husband who holds the deed on a few acres of howling nothingness." in particular the almost wordless emotionally complicated bond between Áurea and Massu. At different points in the story the actresses change roles with Ms. Montenegro settling into her daughter’s outgrown characters. She appears as Áurea in a chapter that takes place in the 1940’s during which Ms. Torres plays a second Maria Áurea’s daughter who has grown up wild and angry resentful of her mother and remote from the customs and traditions that helped Áurea and the first Maria to endure." Áurea’s husband’s fellow travelers have departed and he himself has restored the phrase “bitten the dust” to its literal meaning. For help the women turn to their only neighbors descendants of runaway slaves who populate a leafy fishing village. One of them Massu (Seu Jorge) occupies a role in Maria and Áurea’s household somewhere between servant and husband." 
8102
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/11/movies/11half.html
Ms. Epps holds her face as still as a mask only occasionally easing into smiles as bright as sunflowers and then mostly in the company of her hard-working mother (Karen Chilton). It’s a lovely discreet performance that derives its power from restraint a long steady base line that by virtue of its steadiness gives Mr. Gosling the freedom to riff every which way up and down the expressive scale. Pretty if not distractingly so the actor has long girlish lashes and the lines of his face are so delicate they might have been drawn in ink. It’s easy for him to look sensitive but he can play nasty too as he proved in his breakout performance as a neo-Nazi in “The Believer.”" messy relationship that develops between Dan and Drey after she discovers him nearly passed out in a school bathroom stall a crack pipe still in his hand. The discovery gives her power that she doesn’t use. Instead of turning him in this gruff lonely child makes him a point of curiosity first spying on him from the school playground and then tightening the circle coming closer and closer. Soon Dan is giving her rides home and warning her away from Frank (an excellent Anthony Mackie) the charming midlevel dealer who already has his hooks in her older brother. Dan and Frank each play big brother to Drey adding layers of self-interested advice to her moral education." at least for the left. “Half Nelson” is a lament for the radical fires of the 1960’s but its makers are too utopian and commercially savvy to suggest all is lost. If Savio were alive (he died in 1996) he would be roughly the same age as Dan’s parents whom we meet over a dinner filled with loud talk and too many uncorked bottles. Just before he leaves Dan tells his mother that she and his father “stopped the war.” She tells him “That’s nice honey ” and smiles one of her blurry smiles blasted on booze and that long hangover she has been nursing since 1968. Like her Dan has learned to self-medicate. What he needs to do now is kick the habit of disillusionment and it looks as if he might." and they have figured out how to short-circuit the expectations of an audience weaned on Hollywood pieties. If “Half Nelson” had four times the budget and half the brains it could easily be cinematic Valium a palliative about a white teacher who through pluck and dedication inspires his nonwhite students to victory in the classroom or on a sports field if not necessarily the larger world. But “Half Nelson” is something of a beautiful bummer steeped in such melancholy and painful truths that there are moments when it’s almost a surprise that it doesn’t come with subtitles. This isn’t a pleasure-free zone but the film earns its glimmers of happiness and there are glimmers with honesty." Andrij Parekh; edited by Ms. Boden; music by Broken Social Scene; production designer Elizabeth Mickle; produced by Jamie Patricof Alex Orlovsky Lynette Howell Ms. Boden and Rosanne Korenberg; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 107 minutes." it looks as if Dan Dunne the young idealist Ryan Gosling plays in “Half Nelson ” is suffering from that same terminal fatigue. A junior high school history teacher Dan lives with his cat in an apartment filled with books pages from an unfinished project and furniture that looks dragged in off the street. It’s the kind of apartment that the poor hold onto until they can’t hold on any longer the kind of dump that cops break into so they can pull out the dead which makes it the perfect home for a death wish." and its story hinges on an unusually nuanced relationship between a white man and a black girl each of whom has landed in harm’s way. The delicacy of its lead performances (more on them later) and its sense of everyday texture are each worthy of praise. But what makes “Half Nelson” both an unusual and an exceptional American film particularly at a time when even films about Sept. 11 are professed to have no politics is its insistence on political consciousness as a moral imperative." Shareeka Epps (Drey) Anthony Mackie (Frank) Monique Gabriela Curnen (Isabel) Karen Chilton (Karen) and Tina Holmes (Rachel)." ” Mr. Fleck slips in a black-and-white news clip from 1964 of Mario Savio a student at the University of California Berkeley and a leader of the Free Speech Movement declaiming in front of Sproul Hall the administration building that had become a flashpoint and battleground. “There is a time ” says Savio voice quavering with brilliant passion “when the operation of the machine becomes so odious makes you so sick at heart that you can’t take part; you can’t even passively take part and you’ve got to put your bodies upon the gears and upon the wheels upon the levers upon all the apparatus and you’ve got to make it stop.”" like 13-year-old Drey (the newcomer Shareeka Epps) but he’s committing suicide one crack vial at a time. He’s plagued by such contradictions some inherited others self-generated teaching in a part of Brooklyn that still looks like Brooklyn trying to do good in the very neighborhood where he buys his drugs. (The film was shot among other areas in Gowanus.) The people here are mostly black and brown and in a film not as mindful of race and representation the whole thing might come off as sanctimonious or worse. This is dangerous ground for Dan as well as for the film’s gifted young director Ryan Fleck and his writing (and life) partner Anna Boden." jaw jutting with the notion of telling the dealer off. You expect fireworks maybe a gun or left hook. But it doesn’t go down like that because Frank is a dealer and Dan after all is an addict who like all addicts always takes more than he gives. It’s the same in the classroom. He teaches black kids about Salvador Allende and probably has a couple of dog-eared Frantz Fanon books next to his copy of Gramsci’s “Prison Notebooks.” The kids give him “focus ” but until Drey they’re also abstractions." 
8103
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/11/movies/11step.html
one violent incident two girls who deserve better and no jazz hands whatsoever." Jenna Dewan (Nora) Mario (Miles) Drew Sidora (Lucy) Heavy D (Omar) Damaine Radcliff (Mac) De’Shawn Washington (Skinny) Josh Henderson (Brett) Deirdre Lovejoy (Kathleen) Alyson Stoner (Camille) and Rachel Griffiths (Principal Gordon)." Michael Seresin; edited by Nancy Richardson; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer Shepherd Frankel; produced by Patrick Wachsberger Erik Feig Adam Shankman and Jennifer Gibgot ; released by Touchstone Pictures and Summit Entertainment. Running time: 98 minutes." “Step Up” is a likable product that’s refreshingly free of vulgarity. What it’s really about of course is class. Like “Save the Last Dance” and its predecessors the movie fashions social equality from big musical numbers. If ballet and hip-hop can coexist it asks why can’t we all be friends?" ” the modern high school romance has placed a premium on rhythm. In the typical scenario a boy from the wrong side of the tracks woos a socially superior girl his only assets a killer smile and a limber pelvis. The story is as old as Mickey Rooney but its appeal is eternal and “Step Up” cleaves to the template with significantly more rigor than originality. For a director who is also a choreographer Anne Fletcher is strangely reluctant to step out of line." the rough boy with the street moves is Tyler (Channing Tatum) a genial Baltimore kid who spends his days stealing cars and shooting hoops. During a stint of community service at an arts school Tyler is dazzled by a classically trained dancer named Nora (Jenna Dewan) and is soon awkwardly substituting for her injured partner. Obstacles abound — not the least of these being Nora’s unattractive rehearsal outfits — but no relationship based on perfect upper-body alignment can flounder for long. Not when there’s an end-of-term recital at stake. Dance Tyler dance!" 
8104
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/11/movies/11hami.html
Chris Myers (Joe) Sarah Seipp-Williams (Candace) Gina Mooers (Linda) Megan Clark (April) and Madeleine Saar Reeser (Adeline)." but his frequently wordless images capture mood and emotion with surprising effectiveness. A scene in which Lena writes an innocent note for Joe on a lewd poster in his room reveals a chasm of hopelessness and self-delusion while Joe’s rage against fatherhood is expressed in the fury with which he attacks his video games. Faced with an accidental child Joe finds comfort in the only thing he can control." and with only the flimsiest of characterizations the movie operates primarily on the level of suggestion and insinuation. Unfolding over the course of one sultry summer weekend in the suburb of Hamilton Md. northeast of Baltimore this skeletal tale follows a young single mother named Lena (Stephanie Vizzi) as she tries to connect with Joe (Chris Myers) the aloof angry father of her child." “Hamilton” is a series of lengthy scenes filled with repetition: Joe mowing the lawn and playing with his dog Lena and her friends wandering on the riverbank and swimming in a backyard pool. Yet beneath its drowsy rhythms the movie builds an ineffable sadness around the loneliness of teenage parenting and the disconnect between sex and its consequences." directed and edited by Matt Porterfield; director of photography Jeremy Saulnier; art director Sara Jane Gerrish; produced by Jordan Mintzer. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 70 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8105
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/11/movies/11conv.html
too forward in its conceits to be entirely satisfying — but Mr. Eckhart and Ms. Bonham Carter approach their roles with intelligence and conviction. Their personalities are as different as their accents but both are convincingly complicated." emphasizing their mutual isolation and also fracturing the standard film grammar in which shot is followed by countershot. Here the wounding or revealing word and the reaction to it occur on the same plane at the same time so that the viewer’s attention is emotionally and psychologically as well as literally in two places at once." Los Angeles San Francisco and Cape Cod." played by Aaron Eckhart and Helena Bonham Carter meet. For the most part though the paired images present differently angled simultaneous views of the same thing: the man and woman flirting bantering and occasionally saying what is really on their minds." temporary couple. They meet at the wedding of the man’s sister where the woman has been hastily pressed into service as a bridesmaid. Seeing her sneaking off for a cigarette he follows with two glasses of Champagne and a devilish gleam in his eye. But this attempted pickup is not quite what it seems even though the two of them pretend for a little while to be strangers. It turns out that they know each other quite well having been married — we see their younger skinnier selves (Nora Zehetner and Erik Eidem) meeting falling in love and parting — some years earlier." they have moved on. She lives in London and is married to a slightly older cardiologist while he is living with a dancer who is barely out of college. Whether their encounter is a discreet roll in the hay for old time’s sake or a desperate sad attempt to recapture a lost past is not entirely clear — not to them at any rate. They try to sustain the lighthearted naughtiness appropriate to a brief spontaneous fling but other stronger emotions reveal themselves: guilt regret love." Steve Yedlin; music by Starr Parodi and Jeff Eden Fair; production designer Jodie Lynn Tillen; produced by Ram Bergman Bill McCutchen and Kerry Barden; released by Fabrication Films. Running time: 84 minutes. This film is not rated." while she swings from fragile to ruthless in the space of a single breath. Their chemistry is volatile and unpredictable and they engage your curiosity even though “Conversations With Other Women” is too thin and forced to allow you to care about them." ” his debut feature Hans Canosa splits the screen in two as he observes a man and a woman — their names are never supplied — talking themselves and each other into a one-night stand. The visual gimmick may be the most interesting thing about the film which otherwise has the studied archness of an over-reaching play (the script is by Gabrielle Zevin). But the split-screen technique also makes the brittle syncopated exchanges between the characters more absorbing than they might otherwise have been." Helena Bonham Carter (Woman) Erik Eidem (Young Man) and Nora Zehetner (Young Woman)." 
8106
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/11/movies/11cele.html
Thomas Kretschmann (Wil) Sarah Wayne Callies (Marjorie) Annabeth Gish (Julia) Hector Elizondo (Cardinal Sebastian) Joaquim Almeida (Father Sanchez) Jurgen Prochnow (Jenson) and Obba Babatundé (Miguel)." to borrow one of the film’s favorite verbs but it might leave your jaw slack and your belly sore from laughter. Based on the best-selling book by James Redfield first (self) published in 1993 this cornucopia of kitsch tracks the spiritual awakening of an American history teacher (Matthew Settle) who on traveling to deepest darkest phoniest Peru and sniffing either the air or something more potent discovers that there really is more to life." perhaps because they’re often accompanied by a panpipe flourish and an occasional shout out from a celestial choir. Although there’s a lot of talk about “energy ” that quality is decidedly missing from the motley cast whose numbers include Thomas Kretschmann Annabeth Gish Hector Elizondo and Jurgen Prochnow all of whom are now firmly ensconced in the camp pantheon. For those who care the plot involves the military terrorists and the Roman Catholic Church; Armand Mastroianni provided the inept direction while Mr. Redfield Barnet Bain and Dan Gordon wrote the hoot of a script." Barnet Bain and Dan Gordon based on the novel by Mr. Redfield; director of photography R. Michael Givens; edited by Maysie Hoy and Scott Vickrey; music by Nuno Malo; production designer James L. Schoppe; produced by Mr. Bain Terry Collis Mr. Redfield and Beverly Camhe. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 100 minutes." 
8107
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/11/movies/11calv.html
Jackie Berroyer (Bartel) Philippe Nahon (Robert Orton) Jean-Luc Couchard (Boris) Brigitte Lahaie (Mademoiselle Vicky) and Gigi Coursini (Madame Langhoff)." but without the moves) while more general filmgoers may bristle that this pretentious splatter flick is receiving play time in American theaters even as superior foreign-language offerings remain out of reach. Animal lovers should beware too unless they are really really really really sick animal lovers of the kind found in Krafft-Ebing and Kinsey." however are in luck. Alternating between two of his customary modes creepy and creepy-pathetic Mr. Lucas plays Marc Stevens a lounge singer living out of his van who undergoes the sort of abuse often rained on little women with big lungs. That’s intentional since Marc basically ends up playing the girl in an all-male nightmare populated by savagely violent cretins (including Mr. Noé’s favorite slab of beef Philippe Nahon). When not raping and pillaging they are dancing and drooling in a grim tavern that looks like those featured in the films of Bela Tarr which probably makes this extended game of cat-and-mouse sound more interesting than it is." with English subtitles) by Mr. du Welz  and Romain Protat; director of photography Benoît Debie; edited by Sabine Hubeaux; music by Vincent Cahay; produced by Michael Gentile Vincent Tavier and Eddy Geradon-Luyckx; released by Palm Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." who wrote the screenplay with Romain Protat “Calvaire” is pompous but not without talent or shivers. The opening scene which finds Marc twirling his satin cape for some female lonelyhearts gets the story off to a bad start largely because it’s hard to imagine even the most desperate woman falling for such dead eyes. Although Mr. du Welz and Mr. Lucas can’t sell banal emotions things improve once Marc loses his way in the dark (a milieu that suits the cinematographer Benoît Debie) and takes refuge with a widower Mr. Bartel (played by a very good Jackie Berroyer). With his mad smile and beard Mr. Berroyer looks rather like a lawn gnome come to life which is itself plenty scary." 
8108
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/11/movies/11beal.html
the film supplements but nowhere surpasses the funky charm and moldy glamour of the original. Of special interest to drag queens and fashion designers is a montage of Little Edie’s crazy outfits. The one irreplaceable scene has her feeding slices of bread to a raccoon that frequents a fire-damaged nook of the second-floor landing. Otherwise this ramshackle miscellanea — Edie on the beach Edie in bed Edie free-associating about the Republican Party — properly belongs on the “Grey Gardens” DVD." and the Beales are no longer with us but their legend enjoys a thriving afterlife. A successful “Grey Gardens” musical is jumping to Broadway. A movie based on the Beales starring Drew Barrymore and Jessica Lange is in the works. And now Albert the surviving Maysles brother is contributing to (or perhaps capitalizing on) this resurgence with “The Beales of Grey Gardens ” a new assemblage of outtakes from their archive." the mid-1970’s: The documentary filmmakers Albert and David Maysles set up camp in a decrepit mansion known as Grey Gardens. There amid piles of trash and mounds of cats reside the eccentric Edith Bouvier Beale a first cousin of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and her mother slightly less eccentric and also named Edith. Half mad and completely compelling Little Edie and Big Edie flood the Maysles brothers’ camera with their oddball antics and batty conversation. “Grey Gardens ” a cinéma vérité portrait is culled from the material released in theaters and becomes an instant cult classic." Albert Maysles and David Maysles; edited by Ian Markiewicz; produced by Tanja Meding; released by Maysles Film Productions. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8109
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/09/movies/09worl.html
” feeling transcends politics and the film’s astonishingly faithful re-creation of the emotional reality of the day produces a curious kind of nostalgia. It’s not that anyone would wish to live through such agony again but rather that the extraordinary upsurge of fellow  feeling that the attacks produced seems  precious. And also very distant from the present. Mr. Stone has taken a public tragedy and turned it into something at once genuinely stirring and terribly sad. His film offers both a harrowing return to a singular disastrous episode in the recent past and a refuge from the ugly depressing realities of its aftermath." if memory serves." and the delicacy and insight of the performances in “World Trade Center” complement the director’s bold brushstrokes. Ms. Bello reveals Donna’s toughness without overstating it while Ms. Gyllenhaal suggests a complicated prickly personality underneath the panic and grief." simple feeling and brought to life with vivid clarity by Seamus McGarvey’s cinematography. “World Trade Center” is from the first frame to last almost unbearably moving. It could hardly be otherwise given the facts of the story and the memories it will stir up." upsetting violence most of which reproduce images that were originally seen on television during daylight hours." staking out a narrow perspective and filling it with maximum detail. Mr. Stone much of whose film takes place at ground zero does not share Mr. Greengrass’s clinical quasi-documentary aesthetic. His sensibility is one of visual grandeur sweeping emotion and heightened sometimes overwrought drama." brilliant irresponsible provocative long — but subtle is unlikely to be on the list. Which makes him the right man for the job since there was nothing subtle about the emotions of 9/11. Later  there would be complications nuances gray areas as the event and its aftermath were inevitably pulled into the murky angry swirl of American politics. But that is territory Mr. Stone somewhat uncharacteristically avoids." even in the midst of that day’s horror and confusion that the attacks themselves represented a movie scenario made grotesquely literal. What other frame of reference did we have for burning skyscrapers and commandeered airplanes? And then our eyes and minds were so quickly saturated with the actual endlessly replayed images — the second plane’s impact; the plumes of smoke coming from the tops of the twin towers; the panicked citizens covered in ash — that the very notion of a cinematic reconstruction seemed worse than redundant. Nobody needed to be told that this was not a movie. And at the same time nobody could doubt that someday it would be." as the fifth anniversary approaches it is. For a while a lot of movies seemed to deal with 9/11 obliquely or allegorically. But Paul Greengrass’s “United 93” and Oliver Stone’s “World Trade Center ” rather than digging for meanings and metaphors represent a return to the literal." based on the true stories of John and Donna McLoughlin and William and Allison Jimeno; director of photography Seamus McGarvey; edited by David Brenner and Julie Monroe; music by Craig Armstrong; production designer Jan Roelfs; produced by Michael Shamberg Stacey Sher Moritz Borman and Debra Hill; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 129 minutes." but also about their rescuers notably David Karnes (Michael Shannon) who leaves his office job in Connecticut puts on his Marine Corps uniform and slips into ground zero to search for survivors. Karnes is the only character in the film who looks past the smoke and suffering and articulates a desire for revenge." Michael Peña (Will Jimeno) Maggie Gyllenhaal (Allison Jimeno) Maria Bello (Donna McLoughlin) Stephen Dorff (Scott Strauss) Jay Hernandez (Dominick Pezzulo) and Michael Shannon (Dane Karnes)." who played the good-hearted locksmith in “Crash ” is friendlier and jumpier; Jimeno slips naturally into the role of McLoughlin’s talkative kid brother. the temperamental contrast between the two actors keeps the movie going through its long difficult middle stretch." shocked impotence that “World Trade Center” most effectively reproduces. The details are all in place — the office paper falling like snow; the voices of Tom Brokaw and Aaron Brown extemporizing a collective interpretation of something no one could have imagined; the briefly glimpsed faces of George W. Bush and Rudolph W. Giuliani projecting leadership from the television screen — but the point of the movie is not so much to construct a visual replica as to immerse you once again in shock terror rage and sorrow. And also in the solidarity and concern — the love — that were part of 9/11." they keep talking to each other to keep despair and sleep at bay and you get the sense that it’s their first real conversation an exchange of commonplaces in the face of death. McLoughlin and his wife Donna (Maria Bello) have four children; Jimeno and his wife Allison (Maggie Gyllenhaal) are expecting their second and as the two men talk the banalities of domestic life take on an almost sacred cast." played by Nicolas Cage has a quiet watchful air. A veteran of the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center he rushes into the breach on 9/11 knowing that no adequate plan exists to deal with a catastrophe of this magnitude. Jimeno (Michael Peña) a rookie is eager and a little anxious; his face registers his desire to prove himself on the job and also distinct shadings of fear — both the worry that he’ll mess up and as the hours go by a much deeper terror." after “U Turn ”  that he has directed entirely from someone else’s script and Andrea Berloff’s screenplay her first to be produced imposes a salutary discipline on some of the director’s wilder impulses. The unruly intellectual ambitions that animate both Mr. Stone’s most vigorous work — “Platoon ” “Wall Street ” “J.F.K.” — and his woolliest — “Alexander ” “Natural Born Killers” — may be held in check here but the sober carefulness of this project nonetheless highlights some of his strengths as a filmmaker." saturating even quiet moments with fierce emotion. He edits like a maestro conducting Beethoven coaxing images and sequences into a state of agitated eloquence." playing a man who can be a little self-conscious about his own reticence. (“People don’t like me because I don’t smile a lot ” he says.) He looks older and more worn than he has in other films and he wears his character’s tired stoicism like an old shirt." like Mr. Greengrass keep their distance from post- — or for that matter pre-  — 9/11 politics. The two men buried under the Trade Center don’t even know what brought it down and everyone else is much too busy to begin learning the exotic vocabulary we would all eventually acquire. This movie has nothing to say about Osama bin Laden Al Qaeda or jihad. That comes later." John McLoughlin and Will Jimeno who were trapped deep in the rubble of the collapsed towers where they had gone to help with the evacuation  after the first plane hit. Starting before dawn on Sept. 11 and covering roughly the next 24 hours the narrative switches back and forth from the men to their families in particular the wives who spend agonized hours waiting for news of their husbands’ fates." while the women surrounded by well-meaning friends and family can neither help their husbands nor learn for sure what has happened to them. And so they sit stricken by the telephone or in front of the television as a maelstrom of hectic activity engulfs New York and its environs." 
8110
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/09/movies/09wome.html
Neve McIntosh (Deborah) Kate Ashfield (Susie) Matthew Delamere (Vinnie) Christine Tremarco (Karen) Vas Blackwood (Travis) and Karine Adrover (Véronique)." who is also his first woman of color; a savage creature who pounces on him like a wildcat; and beautiful cosmopolitan Véronique (Karine Adrover) a Frenchwoman he picks up on the subway. (She is reading a pornographic love story.) Their three-day idyll ends when he tells her that his ex once described him as “a comfortable armchair to come back to ” and Véronique flashes him a pitying goodbye look." his glib self-satisfied best friend Vinnie (Matthew Delamere) wisecracks through it even though his long-term relationship with his girlfriend Susie (Kate Ashfield) is showing signs of strain. Never at a loss for a deflating remark Vinnie smugly tosses out cynical epigrams that no lover wants to hear." he responds “We’re a team; it works.” She is not encouraged." well-acted movie filmed on digital video goes in a predictable direction. Matt has always secretly desired Susie who drops hints that she has always been in love with him but because of Matt’s loyalty to Vinnie establishing a relationship presents obstacles. The movie recognizes the depressing fact that the most natural way for two people to connect is by getting to know each other as friends in a hands-off situation." or love what he desires ” is the first of several zingers he unleashes. Or: “Love is like an aspirin. It takes the pain away for awhile but the headache always comes back.”" it could be any European or American city where reasonably well-educated reasonably attractive people mate and hope for the best. As the story begins Matt (Joseph McFadden) who works in an Internet cafe is dumped by Deborah (Neve McIntosh) his girlfriend of six years when she accuses him of “sleepwalking through life.” His avowals of love she complains sound like demands. Then there are her vague but bitter assertions that cannot be answered: “You stopped me from being me.” And “I needed someone who would challenge me.”" doesn’t it? The dead-on accuracy of such dialogue is what sets the movie above run-of-the-mill boy-girl dramas. Moping and dreaming of the past Matt plunges back into the dating pool with a series of frustrating encounters." ” the roses in the romantic flower patch have begun to wilt. What to do: stick things out? Or move on?" Silvia Beck N. G. Smith and Hing Tsang; edited by Stuart Gazzard and Kristina Hetherington; music by Sam Gibb Matt Cattell and Rachel Hamilton; produced by Christopher Simon; released by IFC First Take. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 74 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8111
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/09/movies/09sate.html
“If you could levitate like a satellite the whole world would pass by you in 24 hours.” It is the opening statement of the movie’s melancholy theme of lovers who until they meet harbor a profound sense of insignificance and of disgust with their comfortable meaningless lives." Stephanie Szostak (Ro) Jessica Lawson (Catherine) Pell James (Annie) Randall Jaynes (Mark) and Christina Kirk (Susanne)." directed and edited by Jeff Winner; director of photography Bino Marsetti; music by Vered Ronen songs by Calla; production designer Alfred Cooney; produced by Brian Devine Jason Orans and Jen Small; released by Gigantic Pictures. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 100 minutes. This film is not rated." they abruptly abandon their jobs leaving their bosses with their mouths hanging open. Kevin makes the first move. Striding out of a deadly jargon-filled meeting he dashes to Ro’s office grabs her by the hand and they flee by train to the upstate New York home of his sister and brother-in-law. While bicycling in the country they come upon a parked motorcycle steal it and triumphantly drive it back to New York." who works for a marketing and design company is instantly smitten. “I want to know everything there is about you ” he declares in the elevator to the roof of his apartment where they lie side by side gazing at the stars." but it touches a chord. It captures the wistful underside of the rampant materialism embraced by the young professional class. Fervently believing in unconditional love it puts it to the test and it passes but just barely. After all it is a fairy tale." she must dare him to do the thing he’s not doing; he promises to do the same. They vow never to lie to each other." for all her bravado has a self-destructive streak of irrational jealousy that nearly destroys their relationship. In the most painful scene  she angrily dares Kevin to have sex with a woman who has been flirting with him at a party and he reluctantly obeys. Although Ro is the one who insists on total honesty she is withholding a major secret." spending their savings selling their belongings (including his highly prized personal library) and stealing luxury items like a $270 dress and a fancy cowboy hat; Ro is the thief and Kevin’s motorcycle the getaway vehicle. The boldest heist involves snatching a briefcase through the open window of a taxi and speeding off. Discovering baby pictures in the wallet they return the briefcase (minus the money) to its owner and collect a $50 reward." but instead of robbing banks they commit petty crimes. If its stars didn’t have combustible chemistry the fantasy would evaporate." Ro Mars an art director at a Midtown Manhattan advertising agency notices Kevin Sinks (Karl Geary) a puffy-lipped Brad Pitt manqué on the street and impulsively follows him to a Brooklyn neighborhood bar where she maneuvers to be picked up." ” a captivating romantic fairy tale for grown-ups is narrated by a child whose identity isn’t revealed until the end. Made on a shoestring and shown at the Tribeca Film Festival it could be a springboard for the careers of its writer and director Jeff Winner and its smoldering star Stephanie Szostak. A gap-toothed French model with a faint untraceable accent Ms. Szostak combines Audrey Tautou’s gamine beauty with the seething inner turbulence of Jeanne Moreau’s Catherine in “Jules and Jim.”" 
8112
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/09/movies/09luna.html
“Lunacy” owes less to Sade and more to Poe in particular the humorous story “The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether.” Soon after making the acquaintance of the Marquis Jean arrives at an asylum where the inmates and their keepers may have switched places amid clouds of chicken feathers and lots of cackling (and clucking). Mr. Svankmajer hits his point too hard though happily he also regularly sets loose those errant animal parts which combine to create a shadow narrative that easily trumps the live-action sequences. As it happens a pinch of Sade and a whiff of blasphemy are nothing compared with a cluster of brains crawling out of some tin cans like fugitives or a detached tongue creeping along a wall like an inchworm." this feature-length phantasmagoria relates the Mad Hatter adventures of a young man Jean Berlot (Pavel Liska) who on meeting an aristocrat simply called the Marquis (Jan Triska) tumbles down a very strange rabbit hole. But before this happens the filmmaker appears talking into the camera and cautioning (or rather taunting) us that what we are about to see is not art but a horror film with all the “degeneracy peculiar to that genre.”" Jan Triska (The Marquis) and Anna Geislerova (Charlota)." with English subtitles) and directed by Jan Svankmajer; director of photography Juraj Galvanek; art directors Eva Svankmajerova and Mr. Svankmajer; released by Zeitgeist Films. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 118 minutes. This film is not rated." by which he probably and principally means the scene in which the Marquis unleashes a harangue against God while some half-dozen seminude actors execute a tame pantomime. Despite a little rough business with an effigy on a cross this awkward tableau doesn’t seem all that blasphemous particularly in view of artists like Andres Serrano who have helped drain words like subversive of meaning. Luis Buñuel pulled off a better trick 40 years ago and with more economy by posing Catherine Deneuve as St. Sebastian and flinging mud at her in “Belle de Jour.” Though the reason Buñuel succeeded so brilliantly and enduringly is that he blasphemed a bigger modern god that of celebrity." and at his best he doesn’t just get under your skin but also deep in your head too. Here unfortunately he does neither despite some marvelous stop-motion animated sequences involving a literal moveable feast of severed animal tongues loose eyeballs and errant brains. These peripatetic parts interrupt though not often enough the main event which involves Jean playing horrified seemingly captive witness to the Marquis’s elaborate follies one of which is borrowed from Poe’s famous short story “The Premature Burial ” some of which are borrowed from Sade though without the really nasty bits." 
8113
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04quin.html
” however is quite different from that of  its black-and-white forerunner. “A Taste of Honey” was set in the sooty gloom of the northern England industrial port city of Manchester while  Echo Park is a robust colorful neighborhood on the upswing. Magdalena and her teenage friends are already living the American dream but on a limited budget and their expectations for a brighter future are high." Herman (J. R. Cruz) and her father throws her out of the house in a rage. (Her pregnancy comes as a complete surprise because it is a rare instance of a girl’s  conceiving while remaining technically intact during intense petting.) But when Magdalena insists that she is still a virgin her father refuses to believe her. Herman’s mother fiercely ambitious for her college-bound son won’t listen to her story and keeps him out of her reach." ” a portrait of a Mexican-American family in Los Angeles is as smart and warmhearted an exploration of an upwardly mobile immigrant culture as American independent cinema has produced. Set in Echo Park a working-class Latino neighborhood in the early throes of gentrification it has a wonderfully organic feel for the fluid interaction of cultures and generations in the Southern California melting pot." Carlos with his tattoos and slightly thuggish aura is a sexy trophy to show off to their friends." Jesus Castanos-Chima (Ernesto) Jesse Garcia (Carlos) Alicia Sixtos (Eileen) J. R. Cruz (Herman) Chalo Gonzalez (Tio Tomas) David W. Ross (Gary) and Jason L. Wood (James)." Magdalena (Emily Rios) Ernesto’s ebullient 14-year-old daughter is anticipating her Quinceañera the traditional ceremony that celebrates a girl’s official passage into womanhood at 15. The movie opens with this jubilant rite of passage for her cousin Eileen (Alicia Sixtos) who is decked out like a princess. Magdalena has unrealistically high expectations for her own Quinceañera. To her parents’ chagrin she dreams of being transported to the event with her entourage in a Hummer limousine. In reality Magdalena will have to wear a hand-me-down: her cousin’s dress refitted." although not nearly as strong. Both are watched over by the kindly nonjudgmental Tomas a popular neighborhood character in his 80’s who still ekes out a living as a street vendor of champurrado (a Mexican hot drink)." the film a prize winner at this year’s Sundance festival takes a benign look at the conflicts and crises of three generations of a resilient family whose principal breadwinner Ernesto (Jesus Castanos-Chima) operates a storefront church. Illegal immigration is not an issue here and the film optimistically assumes that newcomers to the country carry with them a surge of vitality." and they have to find new quarters. To its credit “Quinceañera” doesn’t offer any magic solutions. But it believes in its characters enough to leave you feeling that they will not only survive but also flourish." who works in television but is temporarily unemployed breaks the rules to have afternoon trysts with Carlos things get messy and Carlos foolishly begins entertaining fantasies of working in television himself." the film’s writing and directing team describe their movie in a directors’ statement as a reinvention of British kitchen-sink realism from the late 1950’s and early 60’s.  “A Taste of Honey ” Tony Richardson’s 1961 film adaptation of Shelagh Delaney’s play about a plain lonely 17-year-old girl who is impregnated by a black sailor is a particular source of inspiration. In that film forced to fend for herself when her slatternly mother remarries the girl sets up housekeeping with a gay co-worker who becomes the child’s surrogate father." who rents the back house on the property of Gary (David W. Ross) and James (Jason L. Wood) a gay white yuppie couple on the forefront of the neighborhood’s imminent real estate boom. Eileen’s brother Carlos (Jesse Garcia) is already staying with Tomas having been ousted from home by his father who caught him cruising a gay Web site." Eric Steelberg; edited by Robin Katz and Clay Zimmerman; music by Micko and Victor Bock; production designers Denise Hudson and Jonah Markowitz; produced by Anne Clements; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 90 minutes." 
8114
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04desc.html
their friends Juno (Natalie Mendoza) Rebecca (Saskia Mulder) Holly (Nora-Jane Noone) and Sam (MyAnna Buring). Each is meant to come loaded with a distinguishing accent or visual marker but outside of Ms. Mendoza the only nonwhite cast member and one tough-looking hottie; the appealing Ms. Noone who starred in “The Magdalene Sisters”; and Ms. Reid who delivers the most credible performance the women tend to blur. That’s true even of Sarah who comes to the trip bearing weighty emotional baggage and is meant to serve as the point of empathetic entry which she could be if Mr. Marshall had worked as hard on his characters as on his scare tactics." Sam McCurdy; edited by Jon Harris; music by David Julyan; production designer Simon Bowles; produced by Christian Colson; released by Lionsgate Films. Running time: 99 minutes." the film hinges on the kind of extreme caving that marks the women as gutsy or reckless or maybe even insane depending on how you view belly-crawling through passageways only slightly wider than your body. Because these six are exceedingly fit though more in a cinematic than in an athletic sense they can squeeze through breath-impedingly narrow spaces a seeming advantage that soon works to their catastrophic disadvantage. If any of these women were packing serious muscle or an ounce of hip fat this story would end dramatically differently. Then again if any of these cavers also behaved like responsible outdoorswomen this would play out like a Discovery Channel special not a fantastical chiller." Natalie Mendoza (Juno) Alex Reid (Beth) Saskia Mulder (Rebecca) Nora-Jane Noone (Holly) MyAnna Buring (Sam) Oliver Milburn (Paul) and Molly Kayll (Jessica)." ” among other touchstones) a few of the cavers have bitten the dust or rather have been shredded to bits. As might be expected there are monsters on the prowl in “The Descent ” and while they’re shriek-worthy they aren’t the only things stirring up trouble. The women stir their share as we discover when Mr. Marshall throws out his first big shock which arrives with a surprisingly hard jolt in the first few minutes. Not long after two friends Sarah (Shauna Macdonald) and Beth (Alex Reid) are motoring toward an adventure that will find them crawling through tunnels and over somewhat trickier metaphoric ground." a Darwinian soap opera for the Just Do It generation it is also indisputably and pleasurably nerve-jangling. The American edition comes with a nominally more upbeat ending than the British original but it’s basically just kill or be killed and with as much eyeball-gouging neck-gnawing head-bashing and outright fear-mongering as possible. The film has neither the aesthetic grandeur nor the mythic resonance of “Alien ” which stays in your body long after the goose bumps have retreated. But its B-movie minimalism is fairly irresistible as are those swarming monsters that designed to the director’s specifications look like a cross between Iggy Pop and a bat. If that’s not a recommendation I don’t know what is." and an uneasy new dawn the women get down to the business at hand: they slap on their helmets and gear and lower themselves into a yawning cave. What follows is a sensationally entertaining escalation of frights the kind that make you wiggle and squirm as you alternately laugh at your own gullibility and marvel at the filmmaker’s cunning and craft. And what is all the better and indeed helps make “The Descent” one of the better horror entertainments of the last few years is how Mr. Marshall working with the resourceful cinematographer Sam McCurdy messes with our heads long before the monsters do — simply by tapping into one of our most primitive fears that of the dark." Mr. Marshall carves out an increasingly unsettling and claustrophobic shadow world principally by keeping the lights down. He also toys with color interspersing the white beams from the women’s headlamps with washes of green and red from their glow-sticks and flares. The ingenious palette adds to the spooky beauty of the otherworldly setting which with its vaultlike chambers wavy crawlways and spiky stalactites takes on unmistakable sexual overtones particularly as the women’s breathing becomes more labored and their shirts grow clingy with sweat. Like Sigourney Weaver’s Ripley who runs around in “Alien” wearing a peekaboo shirt and panties the women in “The Descent” are sexualized though only up to that critical moment when being a girl takes a back seat to being a survivor." ” a full-throttle horror freakout about six women on a caving expedition. This is the second feature from the British filmmaker Neil Marshall who four years ago set loose a pack of protein-starved werewolves in “Dog Soldiers ” tossing in some explosions and novelty-shop entrails along the way. In the years since Mr. Marshall has learned a couple of important lessons notably that for sheer visceral impact few images beat that of a woman slicked head to toe in blood — think “Carrie” — save for of course the image of that same woman unleashing unholy terror." 
8115
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04brid.html
which is full of sociopaths some charming others not. One of the least appealing is surely Senta (Laura Smet) the femme fatale with cat’s eyes who after meeting him at a wedding sweeps Sophie and Patricia’s older brother Philippe (Benoît Magimel) off his feet. A mama’s boy who looks to be in his late 20’s Philippe has a steady job and the trust of his employer selling bathroom fixtures principally it seems to lonely older women. If he appears especially well suited to these demanding clients it may be because he still lives at home with his doting mother Christine (Aurore Clément) a tremulous blonde with animal-print coordinates and what in an American film might be called boundary issues." the two daughters Sophie and Patricia (Solène Bouton and Anna Mihalcea) are parked in front of a television soaking up a local tragedy and engaging in a familiar spectator sport: the misery of others." and based on the novel of the same title by Ruth Rendell the film has a vague narrative thrust that is itself a red herring. You wait for something to happen not necessarily realizing that the most important thing is happening in front of you in the family members’ exchanges with one another and significantly in Philippe’s fixation on a stone bust that looks somewhat like his mother somewhat like his lover and that once had pride of place in the family yard. (It’s hard to say which is chillier here a stone that looks like a woman or a woman with a stone-cold heart.)" Laura Smet (Senta) Aurore Clément (Christine) Bernard Le Coq (Gérard) Solène Bouton (Sophie) Anna Mihalcea (Patricia) and Michel Duchaussoy (the Tramp)." though a closer look always suggests discomfiting similarities. In “The Bridesmaid ” the latest of his works to be released in the United States Mr. Chabrol again takes up a sharp instrument and directs it at one of his favorite targets the family. Yet while his aim remains true his touch has become gentler more forgiving — perhaps as a consequence of his age (76) perhaps in deference to the contributions of his son the film’s composer Matthieu Chabrol and of his wife Aurore Chabrol its script supervisor." with English subtitles) by Pierre Leccia and Claude Chabrol based on the novel by Ruth Rendell; director of photography Eduardo Serra; edited by Monique Fardoulis; music by Matthieu Chabrol; production designer Françoise Benoît-Fresco; produced by Antonio Passalia Patrick Godeau and Alfred Hürmer; released by First Run Features. Running time: 110 minutes. This film is not rated." “The Bridesmaid” certainly presents a looser more relaxed Mr. Chabrol in both intellectual and formal terms than do midcareer masterworks like “Les Biches” and later successes like “La Cérémonie.” Once again there are a family and a crime as well as the crime that is the family one whose pathology is suggested by smiles and eyes that always seem a bit too bright and by the fantastically ugly flowered wallpaper that covers much of their home like funeral wreaths." it’s more representative of Philippe’s fossilized humanity than an emblem of sexual perversion. In many respects Philippe his sisters and his mother each of whom presents a smiling front to the world are not all that different from their beloved stone bust. It’s no wonder that Philippe lavishes the bust with kisses stroking its smoothly carved cheeks much as he strokes Senta’s curved body. And no wonder too that when the worst happens in this deceptively understated and finally ferocious film Philippe seems to shatter into a thousand pieces much like a stone dropped from a very great height much like a man whose mask has finally and irrevocably been forced from his face." or if they’re American seek a cure or a punishment for souls so afflicted. Mr. Chabrol has never bowed to the notion that characters must be likable (or in the vulgar parlance of Hollywood someone you can root for) knowing full well that all they need be is worthy of our attention. It’s no accident that the only truly appealing character in “The Bridesmaid” is a foulmouthed derelict (Michel Duchaussoy) who burrows into a pile of rubbish parked on Senta’s property. You may not root for this tramp but you may appreciate his earthy laugh and symbolic importance particularly in light of both the bourgeois and bohemian worlds from which he’s so pointedly excluded." 
8116
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04tall.html
though the brand that powers this ragged intermittently uproarious fusion of sketch-comedy goofing and driving around in circles is Will Ferrell who wrote the screenplay (with Adam McKay the director) and served as an executive producer in addition to running around on a race track in his underpants. He does a lot more than that needless to say but Mr. Ferrell’s willingness to strip down to his skivvies is one of his trademarks." obvious parody. Like Ron Burgundy the hero of “Anchorman ” Ricky Bobby is at once a creature of pure extravagant absurdity and a curiously vulnerable sympathetic figure. The son of a “semi-professional stock car racer and amateur tattoo artist” played by Gary Cole Ricky is born in the back seat of a speeding Chevelle and goes on to glory on the  Nascar circuit. His sidekick and best buddy is Cal Naughton Jr. (John C. Reilly) a sweet dim fellow content to come in second behind his pal. (Their motto “shake and bake ” may be an honest homage to a popular product rather than a paid endorsement but who really knows?) Ricky by turns childlike and ferociously competitive has some unresolved Daddy issues which unfortunately weigh down the last third of “Talladega Nights” with perfunctory sentimentality." it has cussin’ fightin’ cheatin’ and drinkin’." whether out of laziness or principle disdain sunlight proper nutrition body-hair maintenance and abdominal exercise. Part of Mr. Ferrell’s appeal is surely that he is one of them. O.K. one of us." Nascar and Hollywood would seem to dwell on opposite sides of the cultural divide. “Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby” is hardly the first movie to challenge this simple-minded view of American popular culture — see also “Herbie: Fully Loaded ” “The Dukes of Hazzard” and of course “Cars” — but it does an admirably thorough job of debunking it." movies (and movie fans) have always had a soft spot for whining engines and screeching tires. But these days the deeper bond between auto racing and popular moviemaking lies in a shared passion for corporate sponsorship. The vehicles in “Talladega Nights” — which was made with the cooperation of Nascar — are covered with logos and brand names and the movie itself may break new records for product placements per frame." “Talladega Nights” is both completely phony and therefore utterly authentic. Or to put it differently: this movie is the real thing. It’s finger lickin’ good. It’s eatin’ good in the neighborhood. It’s the King of Beers. It’s Wonder Bread." home of the stock car king Richard Petty and it requires no sensitivity training to recognize that they are stereotypes of a certain kind of Southern manhood. Not that anyone is likely to be too offended; from the old “Dukes of Hazzard” TV show to the songs of Toby Keith caricature and Rebel pride tend to keep close company." John C. Reilly (Cal Naughton Jr.) Sacha Baron Cohen (Jean Girard) Gary Cole (Reese Bobby) Michael Clarke Duncan (Lucius Washington) and Leslie Bibb (Carley Bobby)." “Talladega Nights” is as good as its craziest riffs which aren’t quite strong or various enough to fill out a whole feature. The funniest scenes have some of the improvised pseudo-vérité flavor of Christopher Guest’s “Best in Show ” but Mr. Ferrell and Mr. McKay are less rigorous than Mr. Guest and his collaborators preferring easy laughs to carefully turned comic insights. Still at the high points — when Mr. Ferrell and Mr. Reilly start jawboning when Leslie Bibb slyly steals a scene as Ricky’s frosty gold-digging wife when Mr. Reilly and Michael Clarke Duncan try to remove a fork from Mr. Ferrell’s thigh or whenever Mr. Cohen opens his mouth — laughs are hard to suppress." Oliver Wood; edited by Brent White; music by Alex Wurman; production designer Clayton R. Hartley; produced by Jimmy Miller and Judd Apatow; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 110 minutes." rather invents a new one: the gay French Formula One driver. Jean Girard as this nemesis is called is played by Sacha Baron Cohen of “Ali G” fame with a demented sang-froid that suggests a synthesis of Peter Sellers and Pee-wee Herman. Mr. Cohen proves himself to be Mr. Ferrell’s equal and opposite a comic dialectic sealed with the summer’s best on-screen kiss." the movie is happy to mock the sport’s eagerness to sell prime uniform and chassis space to sponsors like Perrier Wonder Bread and Old Spice. It also is tickled at the eating habits of its fast-driving characters who wash down Domino’s Pizza and Kentucky Fried Chicken with Coca-Cola and Budweiser and when they want a high-end night out head for the nearest Applebee’s. You can be sure that all these companies paid handsomely for the privilege of such lampooning which even extends to the movie’s single funniest joke a suppertime blessing brought to you by PowerAde." 
8117
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04shoc.html
” under the pseudonym Richard Stevenson the writer Richard Lipez began a series of mysteries featuring Donald Strachey a gay private investigator on the mean streets of New York — Albany to be precise. Using the detective mode to reflect on gay themes and vise versa the books were sexy playful and unafraid of politics while always mindful of their genre mandate." C. Kim Miles; edited by Steve Schmidt; music by Peter Allen; production designer Rick Whitfield; produced by Kirk Shaw; released by Here! TV and Regent Releasing. In Manhattan at the Tribeca Cinemas 54 Varick Street at Laight Street TriBeCa. Running time: 91 minutes." Sebastian Spence (Timmy Callahan) Michael Woods (Dr. Cornell) Daryl Shuttleworth (Detective Bailey) Morgan Fairchild (Mrs. Hale) Anne Marie Deluise (Lynn Cornell) and Nelson Wong (Kenny Kwan)." Chad Allen embodies and subverts the classic butch detective. The plot involves Strachey going undercover at a gay conversion therapy organization to investigate the suspicious suicide of a client. His snooping leads through the predictable mystery movie twists but also to a surprisingly nuanced take on the way gay conversion therapy exploits universal anxieties about who we are and wish we could be." some gay hanky panky and a steamy shower scene." Nelson Wong as his eager new office manager Michael Woods as the conversion therapy guru and a handful of naked football players." Los Angeles Palm Springs and San Diego." this is a sly refreshingly grown-up gay entertainment though rather less satisfying as a thriller. It’s enough to make one curious to see the first (“Third Man Out”) and hope they get around to adapting the other five. I for one would see any movie with a name as marvelous as “On the Other Hand Death.”" 
8118
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04puff.html
Kathryn Aselton (Emily) Rhett Wilkins (Rhett) Julie Fischer (Amber) Bari Hyman (Motel Lady) and Gerald Finnegan (Puffy Chair Salesman)." fittingly enough has knocked around the festival circuit for a while and opened in a few theaters before arriving in New York today. The journey it depicts is similarly unhurried: a van ride from Williamsburg Brooklyn to Atlanta with a stop at a furniture warehouse to pick up the purple recliner that gives the film its title and the story its reason for being." ” written by Mr. Duplass and his brother Jay who directed (Ms. Aselton is credited as a co-producer) treats its characters with tolerant amused patience. Emily seems like the most sensible so much so that you wonder what she’s doing with Josh who is shown to be less than honest and supremely passive-aggressive. His indifference to Emily’s loveliness verges on sadism. Perhaps she finds his soft childish side comforting or maybe the other guys on North Sixth Street are even bigger losers than he is. In any case it seems that Josh and Emily would rather talk baby talk than express their affection in more grown-up ways." which Rhett outdoes and defeats. The Duplasses practice an aesthetic of diffidence refusing to look beyond the small-scale experiences and immediate concerns of the characters. As a result the stakes in “The Puffy Chair” seem very small even as its scenes are often well observed and occasionally very funny. But its fidelity to its characters’ view of the world — although they are presumably college graduates they seem never to have read a book or expressed an opinion — is more a liability than a virtue. “The Puffy Chair” is as modest as their ambitions and as narrow as their curiosity about the world beyond themselves." which is supposedly an exact replica of one that Rhett and Josh’s father had when they were young takes up a lot of space in the van and also does its share of metaphorical work. Most obviously for the brothers it stands for a lost world of childhood. Or maybe not so lost. For Rhett and Josh — and to a lesser extent for Emily — adulthood is a land as remote as the jungles of New Guinea. Josh who used to play in a band now tries to manage other bands without much success. Rhett (Rhett Wilkins) specializes in precipitous decisions — like marrying a woman (Julie Fischer) he meets during a stopover at an independent movie theater — and passionate impractical statements of principle." purchased on eBay by Josh (Mark Duplass) as a birthday present for his father. Accompanying Josh is his girlfriend Emily (Kathryn Aselton) who wants more of a commitment from him than he is willing to make. They are joined by Josh’s brother Rhett whose main accomplishment — apart from growing an impressive beard — has been to videotape a lizard in the bushes outside his suburban apartment complex." Jay Duplass; edited by Jay Deuby; produced by Mark Duplass; released by Roadside Attractions and Netflix. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 85 minutes." 
8119
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04list.html
which was based in turn on an episode in Mr. Maupin’s life “The Night Listener” explores a shadowy region between truth and fiction. Gabriel Noone (Robin Williams) a middle-aged writer with a radio show and a foundering relationship — his younger boyfriend Jess (Bobby Cannavale) has just moved out — strikes up a long-distance friendship with a teenager named Pete who claims to be one of Gabriel’s biggest fans. The boy who has AIDS is also the author of a memoir describing the horrific sexual abuse he suffered before he was adopted by Donna (Toni Collette) a kind-hearted nurse." in one of his blessedly shtick-free performances effectively conveys Gabriel’s weary worried stoicism but the movie limits his character to a few easy literal motivations. A scene with Gabriel’s bluff Southern father (John Cullum) is intriguing without being especially illuminating and Mr. Cannavale’s character seems more functional than real." whose literary renderings of a blighted childhood were recently revealed as a hoax. Clearly there is something about tales of violated innocence the more extreme the better that invites credulity. Why would anyone make up such horrible stories? Why would anyone believe — or for that matter doubt — them? Those questions hover in the background of this film which scratches its head and shrugs them off." suspenseful moments — especially when Gabriel travels to Wisconsin in search of Pete and has a series of unsettling encounters with Donna — but it shrinks a rich strange story to the dimensions of an anecdote. The intensity of Gabriel’s connection to his young friend who seems to be a lonely needy soul reaching out across empty space is posited but never adequately dramatized. Neither Pete’s charisma nor the source of Gabriel’s susceptibility to it is given much shape or force." Toni Collette (Donna D. Logand) Bobby Cannavale (Jess) Rory Culkin (Pete D. Logand) Sandra Oh (Anna)." Armistead Maupin and Terry Anderson based on the novel by Mr. Maupin; director of photography Lisa Rinzler; edited by Andy Keir; music by Peter Nashel; production designer Michael Shaw; produced by Robert Kessel Jeffrey Sharp John N. Hart Jr. and Jill Footlick; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 82 minutes." who nursed Jess through a period of life-threatening illness needs someone to protect and care for and that Pete represents a beguiling mixture of toughness and innocence but the psychological and intellectual implications that hover over the story are lost in the spooky atmospherics and overshadowed by Ms. Collette’s off-kilter showboating." mostly in flashbacks and fantasy sequences by Rory Culkin) really exist? That is among the questions that haunt Mr. Maupin’s book but it is pretty much the only question addressed by this well-meaning flat-footed screen adaptation directed by Patrick Stettner and written by Mr. Stettner Mr. Maupin and Terry Anderson." 
8120
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04jail.html
offering reading material helpful hints and conversation but before long his true intentions toward Randy who happens to be prettier than most girls become frighteningly clear. (Wisely any sexual abuse that may take place does so off screen dulling none of its effect.)" slight violence and harsh language." freshest target but a pertinent one nonetheless — the writer and director Brett C. Leonard sets his debut film “Jailbait ” almost entirely inside a grungy shadowy prison cell inhabited by a pair of men unequal both in crime and character." Randy’s crime-to-punishment ratio won’t seem even remotely fair. But somehow neither does asking audiences to get trapped behind bars with these prisoners enduring the sting of human cruelty and the stagnant passing of time for a stagy only mildly compelling prison drama that ends up feeling like purgatory to all involved." John Campbell; edited by Ron Len; music by Ed Tomney; production designer Ernesto Solo; produced by Dan O’Meara Mr. Leonard Rene Bastian Linda Moran and Corbin Day; released by Kindred Media Group. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 90 minutes." portraying yet another quiet tortured soul) is sentenced to 25 years for a few relatively harmless drug- and vandalism-related offenses while the older sketchier Jake (Stephen Adly Guirgis better known as a playwright and rightly so) is serving a life term for the savage murder of his wife." Michael Pitt (Randy) Laila Robins (Mother) and David Zayas (Guard)." 
8121
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04coun.html
English and Kurdish with English subtitles; director of photography Ms. Poitras; edited by Erez Laufer and Ms. Poitras; music by Kadhum Al Sahir; produced by Ms. Poitras and Jocelyn Glatzer; released by Zeitgeist Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." Dr. Riyadh offers medicine advice and sometimes money to patients traumatized by years of violence and uncertainty. Yet a pall of failure hangs over the film as he tries to dissuade the Sunni leadership from boycotting the elections and argues with the United States military over the incarceration of a 9-year-old boy. Around him the movie teems with American soldiers United Nations officials and private security contractors as well as Kurdish militia and mujahedeen. At home his outspoken wife Samera and six children wonder if voting will get them killed." MY COUNTRY" “My Country My Country” is an appropriately mournful look at the chaos of Iraq under American occupation. Filmed over the course of eight months from June 2004 to February 2005 this documentary views the run-up to the January elections for the national assembly primarily through the eyes of Dr. Riyadh a Sunni candidate and physician who runs a free clinic in Baghdad. It is a reflection of the situation in Iraq that the director Laura Poitras decided not to disclose the doctor’s last name for the sake of his security even though it has been made public." Ms. Poitras exposes the emotional toll of occupation on Iraqis and American soldiers alike. Nosing around in rubble-strewn neighborhoods and peering through the wire at prisoners in Abu Ghraib Ms. Poitras and her camera find little to celebrate. “My Country My Country” may appear to be strictly observational but its images and structure inevitably question the legitimacy of democracy at gunpoint leaving us with the feeling that this particular mission is far from accomplished." 
8122
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04boyn.html
blood pressure cholesterol arthritis and the thousand other health concerns of older people. One anxious widower resorts to Viagra to ease his transition back into the dating game and that’s all we hear about medication unless you count one widow’s stash of marijuana. Nobody frets about money or worries about how to stretch out a nest egg into old age." Dyan Cannon (Lois) Len Cariou (Jack) Sally Kellerman (Sandy) Michael Nouri (Donald) Renée Taylor (Anita Stern) and Brenda Vaccaro (Marilyn)." a beefy somewhat younger guy who is not quite what he appears to be. As mature as these people are they have no compunctions about misleading their potential partners to further their romantic agendas." California Arizona New Jersey Connecticut and Missouri." lean blond flashing her crocodile grin and Dyan Cannon maniacally perky and jiggling her curves are definitely not the Golden Girls. Both actresses are 69 but you would never guess it while looking at these indefatigably youthful babes with weirdly unlined faces as they set their sights on eligible men and zoom in for the kill." you can relax and enjoy the bittersweet comic performances by an ensemble that in addition to the aforementioned bombshells includes Joseph Bologna Len Cariou Michael Nouri Renée Taylor and Brenda Vaccaro." directed by Susan Seidelman was inspired by the experiences of her mother Florence (the movie’s producer) at an adult enclave in South Florida and is dedicated to exploring the proposition that 60 is the new 40. We’ve come a long way from the days of the old radio soap opera “The Romance of Helen Trent ” which was solemnly billed as the story of a woman who proved that “romance can live in life at 35 and even beyond.”" “Boynton Beach Club” maintains the pace of a fast jog as Ms. Seidelman manipulates its formulaic machinery with a sure hand resolving the characters’ romantic peccadilloes at a New Year’s sock hop. Smoothly balancing comedy and pathos it infuses the fantasy with enough credibility to make you care about these people and wish them merrily on their way." whose robustly healthy husband dies when he is hit by a car while literally dancing down the street. The driver Anita (Ms. Taylor) is a fat grotesquely tanned and bleached gorgon who hits him as she yaps on her cellphone while backing out of her driveway. She is the one character the movie refuses to forgive." you might be excused for speculating that it is really a high school romantic comedy whose teenage characters are played by their grandparents." a support group for the recently bereft who are encouraged to air their feelings meet new friends and get back into the swing of life. And by swing I mean swing." who lost his wife a few months earlier is tutored in cooking and courtship by Harry (Mr. Bologna) a self-advertised ladies’ man whose vanity is momentarily punctured when a dream date he meets on the Internet turns out to be a prostitute. The movie’s most touching scenes observe Jack’s nervous re-entry into the dating world where under the patient ministrations of Sandy (Ms. Kellerman) he regains his sexual confidence." be it running down the beach in high heels or learning inline skating." Eric Moynier; edited by Keiko Deguchi; music by Marcelo Zarvos; production designer Kevin Kropp; produced by Florence Seidelman and Susan Seidelman; released by Roadside Attractions and Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 104 minutes. This film is not rated." an incessantly gabby shamelessly flirtatious decorator who is the club’s unofficial social director. It is a sign of progress that Marilyn eventually screws up enough courage to confront the odious Anita and vent her anger." 
8123
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/04/movies/04barn.html
there is one thing: like too many animated films aimed at children “Barnyard” embraces stereotypes that generally no longer cut it in adult films and for good reason. There’s the noisy hag of a female neighbor (Maria Bamford) a type that should have died with “Bewitched ” though more discomforting are the ethnically and racially coded voices like that of Pip (Jeff Garcia) the funny sidekick mouse with the Mexican accent. There is also the voice of wisdom that often belongs to Morgan Freeman and here is expressed by Danny Glover as sigh Miles the Mule; the abrasively sassy cow Bessy voiced by the abrasively screechy Wanda Sykes; and the fat rat festooned with gold that raps like Shaggy." Courteney Cox (Daisy) Sam Elliott (Ben) Danny Glover (Miles) Wanda Sykes (Bessy) Andie MacDowell (Etta) and Jeff Garcia (Pip)." though if you were wearing a bushy mustache and a polka-dot bow tie you might feel compelled to say that it’s udderly strange. Aimed at wee ones who like their colors bright and their stories elemental this feature  animation from the writer and director Steve Oedekerk centers on a community of barnyard animals who under the distracted care of a vegan farmer walk talk and party down like human beings. On occasion a few of the male “cows ” as the film insists on calling them hotwire the neighbor’s car cranking the tunes with their mittenlike hooves." the youngster who shirks the responsibility shouldered by his dad Ben (Sam Elliott) the barnyard’s protector. Like most of the farm’s denizens Otis walks on his back legs when the humans aren’t looking which affords a fine view of his large pink udder with its four restless teats. The udder looks a lot like the base of a plumber’s plunger and the teats look exceptionally friendly like chubby little fingers waving toodle-oo. They’re so friendly that it’s hard not to stare at them and wonder what would happen if you milked Otis which proves both distracting and something of a relief since there isn’t all that much else in this film to think about." along with some mean coyotes." 
8124
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/02/movies/02vaca.html
” a generic coming-of-age movie whose arrival on the scene suggests that the audience for gay indie clunkers is inexhaustible." directed and edited by Todd Verow; written by Mr. Verow and Jim Dwyer; director of photography Mr. Verow; music by Colin Owens; released by Bangor Films. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 104 minutes. This film is not rated." Joe gets a gig as houseboy-model for a funky old man Victor (Charles Ard) who lives in a loft above the local opera house. This becomes a retreat where the kids get wasted and crash and with minimal drama (and much titillated interest from their crypto-lesbian ex-girlfriends) the boys are soon making out nonstop yippee!" a local gay bar popular with burnouts and child molesters and plot complications too ludicrous to spoil." Joe’s sister Theresa (Hilary Mann) robs her boss turns a trick and boards a plane for Los Angeles. She  fails alas to hijack the plot though  she’s twice as interesting as anyone else." Gregory J. Lucas (Andrew) Jennifer Stackpole (Mandy) Mindy Hofman (Kris) Hilary Mann (Theresa) Michael John Dion (Tim) and Charles Ard (Victor)." a soulful cutie with ambitions to make art who has a crush on his superhot best friend Andrew (Gregory J. Lucas) and a habit of hanging out in public bathrooms in search of naughty business like letting strangers play with his leg hair and fooling around with  his French teacher whom he blackmails  into assisting him with an application to the Rhode Island School of Design." Me. the story is supposedly based on the life of the producer director cinematographer editor and co-writer Todd Verow If half of this stuff really happened to him all I can say is whoa." 
8125
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28vice.html
Mr. Johnson was a has-been — or never-quite-was — movie star which helped give his character a grizzled disappointed element of soulfulness. In the movie version though only real movie stars who command attention simply by allowing the camera to behold them will do. Mr. Foxx sly taciturn and effortlessly charismatic certainly fulfills the requirement as does Ms. Gong a goddess of global cinema whose every word you hang on even when you can’t understand a single one. If there is any justice in the world Ms. Harris (who can also be seen this summer in “Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man’s Chest”) will join their ranks before long." business-minded drug couriers in the interests of bringing down far-reaching criminal enterprises which means that they must be adept at handling fast boats suitcases full of cash small planes and large guns. Their private lives don’t take them far from the job. In his spare time Tubbs keeps company with a vice squad co-worker (Naomie Harris) while Crockett pursues a reckless affair with a drug kingpin’s wife and business associate (Gong Li) and these entanglements give the undercover work an extra jolt of intensity. By the time the final showdown with the bad guys comes around Crockett and Tubbs have long since crossed the line that divides the professional from the personal." as if Mr. Mann were paying homage to the avant-garde anti-narrative cinema of Stan Brakhage in the midst of a big studio production. Dispensing with the convention that the pictures exist to serve the story Mr. Mann frequently uses plot as an excuse to construct ravishing pictures." and the flames are beautiful to behold. Mixing pop savvy with startling formal ambition Mr. Mann transforms what is essentially a long fairly predictable cop-show episode into a dazzling (and sometimes daft) Wagnerian spectacle. He fuses music pulsating color and high drama into something that is occasionally nonsensical and frequently sublime. “Miami Vice” is an action picture for people who dig experimental art films and vice versa." his major characters tend to be men whose commitment to their professions transcends mere workaholism and becomes an all-consuming almost operatic passion." however is a movie star only in the sense that Richard Gephardt is president of the United States. He’s always looked good on paper and he’s picked up some endorsements along the way — from Oliver Stone Joel Schumacher and Terrence Malick among others —  but somehow it has never quite happened. Here he squints and twitches to suggest emotion and slackens his lower lip to suggest lust concern or deep contemplation but despite his good looks he lacks that mysterious quality we call presence." real movie stars would occasionally swing by for a visit. Still the old Crockett and Tubbs played by Don Johnson and Philip Michael Thomas carried a lot of baggage onto the set: divorces dead partners Vietnam the N.Y.P.D. Their new improved selves by contrast travel light and sleek with no back stories to burden the picture with exposition. Except for something about Crockett’s daddy and the Allman Brothers which explains Mr. Farrell’s mustache if not his peculiar accent." but before too long we’re in the familiar world of heartless Latin American drug lords (in this case a retiring fellow played by Luis Tosar) and their sadistic minions (John Ortiz looking like an especially disgruntled graduate student). The case requires elaborate cover buckets of money and the finest fastest air and sea vessels the taxpayers of Miami can afford. Not really of course. The actual operating budget for the Miami police department in fiscal year 2005 was around $100 million a good $50 million less than the reported production costs of “Miami Vice.”" the glowing throbbing nightclub set pieces the meticulously choreographed deployments of lethal force — it might be that love and work don’t mix. Sonny Crockett (Colin Farrell) and Ricardo Tubbs (Jamie Foxx) the South Florida municipal employees whose labors preoccupy this movie (as they did its predecessor television series two decades ago) have pretty complicated jobs to begin with." overwrought lines but they only really sound that way in Mr. Farrell’s mouth. (Did he really say “I’m a fiend for mojitos”? ¡Dios mío!) When he’s not on screen you don’t miss him and when he is you find yourself before long looking at someone or something else. Gong Li. A boat. A lightning bolt illuminating the humid summer sky." from Colombia to Cuba (impersonated as usual by the Dominican Republic) where Crockett and his lady friend drop in for cocktails one evening after work. The movie’s swirl of danger glamour and professionalism expands the central conceit of the series which was to imagine a pair of urban cops who looked dressed and acted like movie stars." they’re a lot like the detectives played by William L. Petersen in “Manhunter” and Al Pacino in “Heat ” or like Tom Cruise’s hit man in “Collateral ” to name just a few. Which is also to say that like most of Mr. Mann’s men they betray a telling resemblance to the man himself. Never one for compromise or restraint this filmmaker throws himself into every frame turning genre movies into feverish spectacles of style and feeling." boxers or cabdrivers cops or robbers or frontiersmen and they might relate to one another as partners antagonists or uneasy allies but they all seem to share this essential trait. It is impossible to separate who they are from what they do. Crockett and Tubbs are not in it for the pension plan or the dental coverage not for the planes and the boats and the cool sunglasses not even for the righteous thrill of fighting crime. Their devotion to their work is irrational risky extravagant: you might even say crazy. They insist on doing it their own way tolerating no interference from for instance some pencil-pushing F.B.I. suit (Ciaran Hinds)." heavy breathing and heavy gunplay." with leisurely voluptuous sensuality ranges from crowded cities to the open sea from billowy thunderheads to the rippling muscles on Mr. Foxx’s back. Like “Collateral ” “Miami Vice” was shot in high-definition digital video which Mr. Mann in collaboration with the brilliant cinematographer Dion Beebe treats not as a convenient substitute for film but as a medium with its own aesthetic properties and visual possibilities. The depth of focus the intensity of colors and the grainy smudged finish of some of the images combine to create a look that is both vividly naturalistic and almost dreamlike." apart from the occasional swatch of untranslated law-enforcement jargon (“Our op-sec has been compromised”) and the rumpled workaday presence of the wonderful Barry Shabaka Henley as Lieutenant Castillo the down-to-earth commanding officer played on television by Edward James Olmos." from “Bad Boys” to “Bad Boys II.” There isn’t much to add. But the irrelevance of this project makes Mr. Mann’s quixotic devotion to it seem perversely heroic. This was not a job that anyone needed to do but then again no one could have done it better." based on the television series created by Anthony Yerkovich; director of photography Dion Beebe; edited by William Goldenberg and Paul Rubell; music by John Murphy; production designer Victor Kempster; produced by Mr. Mann and Pieter Jan Brugge; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 133 minutes." Colin Farrell (Sonny Crockett) Gong Li (Isabella) Naomie Harris (Trudy Joplin) Ciaran Hinds (Agent Fujima) Justin Theroux (Zito) Barry Shabaka Henley (Lt. Castillo) Luis Tosar (Montoya) John Ortiz (José Yero) and Elizabeth Rodriguez (Gina)." 
8126
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28scoo.html
” and while that makes for some apparent goofs and lots of ragged edges it gives the whole thing a pleasantly carefree vibe. After the first 20 or so clunky minutes the film settles into a groove and then ever so slightly deepens. Mr. Allen’s  invocation of the “Thin Man” films  in an interview makes sense even if he’s no William Powell and Ms. Johansson is certainly no Myrna Loy. “Scoop” was made by someone who understands that what makes the “Thin Man” series enduring isn’t whodunit and why but the way Nick and Nora look  at each other as they sip their martinis Asta nipping at their heels." ” which was largely sold on its leads and its enthusiastic reviews. The name of its writer and director was conspicuously played down in the advertisements the consequence of the string of flops he had lately churned out. With its fierce performances and writing “Match Point” proved very much a return to fine form if not for the comic Woody Allen then for the serious Woody Allen the one who didn’t try to hide his misanthropy his fear and his loathing behind jokes and shtick. Another plus: he wasn’t in the film groping the starlet." but it’s all very gentle." playfully tossing insults  at each other. Mr. Allen’s apparent realization at long last that neither his diehard fans nor more agnostic viewers want to watch him paw a much younger woman does wonders. It not only removes the distracting “eew” factor it also allows him to settle into a more paternal role which he does with persuasive naturalness." Remi Adefarasin; edited by Alisa Lepselter; production designer Maria Djurkovic; produced by Letty Aronson and Gareth Wiley; released by Focus Features. Running time: 96 minutes." it also means “Scoop” isn’t just another one of those narcissistic revues in which a Woody Allen-like character sometimes played by the filmmaker himself sometimes by an unsettling surrogate (Kenneth Branagh Will Ferrell and so on) gobbles up the screen the woman our attention and our presumed love. In “Scoop” he has to share and he does." Ms. Johansson has yet to learn how to control either the husk in her voice or that lovely lush  body which makes for moments both charmingly awkward and just awkward. Mr. Allen is a famously reticent director at least when it comes to his actors who often seem to direct themselves. Ms. Johansson’s performance is all over the place in “Scoop ” but finally works for a film that is itself all over the place. Mr. Allen seems happy to just watch her strut her stuff and after a while so are we." ” his not especially funny yet oddly appealing new comedy Woody Allen manages to  act his age and prove there’s life in those old jokes yet. Like his last outing the pitch-black drama “Match Point ” the new one revisits a number of Mr. Allen’s favorite themes including money conscience and luscious young women ripe for the plucking this time for laughs. As in the earlier film Scarlett Johansson plays the succulent morsel though with a performance set in the key of screwball rather than noir. Her sweaters are looser as is her smile.  The film in turn is positively slack which turns out to be one of its virtues." though his camera tends to linger appreciatively over her form. In her role as Sondra Pransky an American journalism student in London Ms. Johansson tends to wear roomy almost dowdy clothes the exception being a screaming-red maillot that she fills out beautifully bringing to mind Cathy Moriarty baking under the sun and Robert De Niro’s hotter gaze  in “Raging Bull.” Sondra is more the Nancy Drew type particularly when dressed and wearing her glasses though she is also the kind of girl reporter who thinks nothing of sleeping with her interviewees to get the story. Nancy Drew probably didn’t  go past  first base but neither did she chase ghosts and aristocrats while running with a magician called Splendini." Hugh Jackman (Peter Lyman) Scarlett Johansson (Sondra Pransky) and Ian McShane (Joe Strombel)." where she meets an actual ghost and — presto changeo — walks out with a news lead of a lifetime. The ghost a recently deceased journalist Joe Strombel (Ian McShane) believing he knows the identity of a serial killer on the hunt gives Sondra the scoop. This in turn leads to an affectionately testy partnership with Splendini a k a Sid Waterman (Mr. Allen of course) and through some twists and turns to Peter Lyman (Hugh Jackman) an aristocrat who enters the thick of things after making an acquaintance with that screaming-red bathing suit. None of it makes much sense but like slackness nonsense proves a virtue here." 
8127
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28tzam.html
Sebastien (Georges Babluani the director’s brother) is a wiry 20-year-old Georgian immigrant living from hand to mouth in a rural French town filmed to suggest crumbling Eastern European ruin. While repairing a neighbor’s roof he overhears an enigmatic conversation in which his suave white-haired employer Jean-François (Philippe Passon) alludes to a job that may lead to easy money." “13 Tzameti” steadily intensifies a mood of Kafkaesque foreboding. Its air of life-or-death secrecy recalls “Eyes Wide Shut ” in which Tom Cruise infiltrates a club of orgiasts. But “13 Tzameti” is not about sex. If you don’t want any of its secrets unlocked stop reading here." Sebastien is brusquely informed that his services are no longer needed and that he won’t be paid for his work. Stealing a letter to Jean-François with information about the high-paying job Sebastien follows its cryptic instructions to pick up a first-class train ticket and get off at a certain stop. From the moment he boards the train the police begin keeping an eye on him. Met at a crossroads Sebastien is whisked to a remote chateau in the woods surrounded by shiny black limousines." each player is given one then two three and four bullets. As a referee (Pascal Bongard) barks instructions like a feral prison guard the players spin their cartridges wait for a striped lightbulb to flash then fire. The survivor is the winner of a climactic duel in which the last two players face each other eye to eye gun to forehead and simultaneously pull the trigger. The winner collects a suitcase full of money. His ultimate challenge is to escape the premises without interception by the police or worse." an image flashed through my mind of the jowly Adolphe Menjou in “Paths of Glory ” playing a cynical French general who blithely dispatches young men to certain slaughter in World War I. For such men blood lust keeps the juices flowing and the notion that human life is worth anything more than the resale value of severed body parts is just so much foolish sentimentality." with English subtitles) produced and directed by Gela Babluani; director of photography Tariel Meliava; edited by Noémie Moreau; music by East (Troublemakers); production designer Bernard Peault; released by Palm Pictures. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." there is a remarkable lack of bloodshed onscreen. Realistic gore would only distract from the tension and undermine the league-of-depraved-gentlemen elegance surrounding the proceedings. A kink in the rules allows players when overcome with terror to be injected with morphine." it has little of the anguished emotional resonance of the Russian roulette played in “The Deer Hunter.” The games are closer in feel to the kind of fiendish practical jokes played in the “Saw” horror movies. Addressing the atavistic side of the male psyche which gravitates toward cockfights and extreme sports “13 Tzameti” dares you to be shocked." Sebastien finds himself a prisoner obliged to participate in a deadly game in which the chances of his surviving are slim. He is in the clubhouse of a secret society of high-stakes gamblers who bet on an elaborate variation of Russian roulette in which numbered players stand in a circle with loaded guns pointed at their neighbors’ heads and shoot on command. Sebastien has the unlucky number 13.  (“Tzameti” means 13 in Georgian.)" a handsome black-and-white thriller in which Gela Babluani a Georgian filmmaker makes his flashy directorial debut is the French language. With its icy cynicism and desolate settings the film evokes the work of the young Roman Polanski in his sadistic trickster mode." Aurélien Recoing (Jacky) Pascal Bongard (Master of Ceremonies) Fred Ulysse (Alain) Philippe Passon (Jean-François) Nicolas Pignon (Romain) and Vania Vilers (Mr. Schloendorf)." 
8128
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28peop.html
Kris Lienert; edited by Ms. Fickle Ms. Lienert and Michael Bassett; music by Jeff Gerson; produced by Ms. Fickle Jennifer Fitzgerald and Liza Politi; released by Hyberbaric Productions. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 89 minutes. This film is not rated." and if the movie inspires people to vote or volunteer hurrah. It is far more compelling as an unconscious disaster film heartbreaking in its idealism." Malindi Fickle restricts herself to the brute facts of organization and crisis control as a small team of chipper factotums and enthusiastic volunteers (average age 72) attend to bureaucratic minutiae. Voting machines are delivered and installed paraplegics are registered to vote training sessions are conducted for hundreds of poll workers mountains of paperwork are inspected and huge  amounts of caffeine are consumed." but don’t tell that to Doris Anne Sadler. As the indefatigable county clerk in Indianapolis her efforts to facilitate the democratic process uplift “By the People ” a behind-the-scenes documentary account of the logistics of a presidential election." everything goes haywire on Nov. 2. Phone lines go down; voting machines go kaput; a list of several thousand dead voters many of whom are not actually dead is delivered by the secretary of state. Ms. Sadler meanwhile carries on with her impossibly good-natured dedication." 
8129
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28john.html
today’s teen comedies send me running to the video store for a fix of John Hughes. At least there’s a heart beating behind his goofy-sweet tales of high school awkwardness. Not so in Betty Thomas’s “John Tucker Must Die ” a dispiriting revenge fantasy engineered by three waspish Barbies against one disposable Ken." the ladies bait a love trap with never-been-kissed Kate (Brittany Snow) a nerd with anonymity issues. After the inevitable mouse-to-hottie makeover Kate is ready to turn John on then snuff him out. Metaphorically speaking." girls in bras and comedy in peril." “John Tucker Must Die” can’t even sustain the courage of its girl-power convictions switching allegiance in the final reel. Yet there’s a Parker Posey snap to Sophia Bush’s portrayal of the vegan girlfriend and Penn Badgley is wildly charismatic in the role of John Tucker’s younger brother. The entire picture could hang on his cheekbones alone." Brittany Snow (Kate) Ashanti  Douglas (Heather) Sophia  Bush (Beth) Arielle Kebbel (Carrie) Jenny McCarthy (Lori) and Penn Badgley (Scott)." Anthony B. Richmond; edited by Matthew Friedman; music by Richard Gibbs; production designer Marcia Hinds; produced by Bob Cooper and Michael Birnbaum; released by 20th Century Fox Films. Running time: 90 minutes." he struggles to emote even when his character’s protein shake is spiked with estrogen. “I’m anxious and bloated and my nipples hurt!” he whines unconvincingly. Doesn’t he know that acting well is the best revenge?" 
8130
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28flie.html
and so on. An evening stroll along Avenue B in downtown Manhattan for instance can inspire simultaneous wonder and horror at streets that are as clean as they are antiseptic. That you can actually walk down the avenue past midnight without someone pointing a gun at your head and taking off with your wallet is perhaps one consequence of such sterile living. The lack of character is another." Mr. Shopsin is a bellicose eccentric (and ace fly swatter) with a sense of self as expansive as his Falstaffian girth. He inspires love and terror a combination that clearly amuses him and adds to his repute." though not far away to Carmine Street. Mr. Mahurin’s camera follows movers as they dismantle the restaurant’s grease-encrusted stove and the Shopsins uneasily arrange some of their old paintings and tchotchkes in the new space. Thereafter the food continued to impress and the rent it seems continued to rise. A few weeks ago Mr. Shopsin said  that he might one day move to Brooklyn: “I don’t know that I’m going to want to pump out enough eggs to pay the rent in the West Village.” Meanwhile in other signs of change the restaurant now has a Web site (www.shopsins.com) the color of Campbell’s or maybe Shopsin’s tomato soup and adorned with a graphic of two grappling men.  The menu is posted as are of course the rules." directed and edited by Matt Mahurin; director of photography Mr. Mahurin; music by Chris Toland; released by ThinkFilm. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 79 minutes." but he never gets past his delight to say anything of real sustaining interest. Gonzo personalities like Kenny Shopsin helped make New York what it is or arguably was which is why sometimes a rent hike isn’t a rent hike but a calamity. And why as Calvin Trillin wrote the Shopsin’s of fond memory would no longer exist once its original doors closed." ” a quick-sketch portrait of Kenny Shopsin of the legendary or notorious depending on your experience Greenwich Village eatery  that bears his name. Directed by Matt Mahurin who also served as the cinematographer and editor this 79-minute film which was shot on video and looks it begins in 2002 not long after the legendary or notorious (again it depends) restaurateur realized that a rent increase was going to force him off the corner space at Bedford and Morton Streets that he had occupied for more than three decades. Mr. Mahurin has said that Mr. Shopsin asked him to come in and document the place and so he did." and it’s easy to see why what with a menu that features hundreds of items from soup to fluffernutter  sandwiches interspersed with a couple of poems including one that explains that parties of more than four people will not be served. If you do obey this and the other rules (no cellphones huzzah!) you can travel the world (Jamaican patties croque monsieur) and savor a bit of the old neighborhood by way of a chocolate egg cream.  Other offerings include Blisters on My Sisters (corn tortillas with more than 20 possible fillings) and an Orange Julius that is accompanied by an image of a leering Malcolm McDowell dressed like a droog from “A Clockwork Orange.”" a longer version of which was later folded into his essay collection “Feeding a Yen.” The article runs more than 4 400 words and in it you learn a lot of things that you don’t in the documentary like how many customers the first restaurant seated  (34) and the circumstances by which Mr. Shopsin and his wife Eve turned their grocery store into a cafe in 1982. (Another rent hike.) The store had a rocking chair and free circulating paperbacks which are precisely the kinds of touches you might remember from lost New York where babushkas roamed Orchard Street and visits from the seltzer man were a matter of weekly routine not retro chic." 
8131
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28brot.html
composed by Clive Langer a guitarist in the real-life mid-70’s band Deaf School and later a successful new-wave producer is a stylistically dead-on period re-creation. “Two-Way Romeo ” the title of their clattering signature song is also the name of an unfinished film about the twins of which we see snippets supposedly directed by Ken Russell who plays himself." whose earlier films include two documentaries about the filmmaker Terry Gilliam “The Hamster Factor and Other Tales of 12 Monkeys” (1997) and “Lost in La Mancha” (2002). The new movie although fictional feels as real as their earlier films." Laura Ashworth (Tania Emery) a journalist who has gotten wind of their existence is allowed into the inner circle on the pretext of writing about the exploitation of the disabled. When she falls in love with Tom Barry forced to be both observer and captive participant in the romance (no sex is shown) becomes bitterly jealous. As both twins embrace the usual rock ’n’ roll excesses of drugs and booze Barry shaves his hair into a Mohawk." based on the book by Brian Aldiss; director of photography Anthony Dod Mantle; edited by Nick Gaster; music by Clive Langer; production designer Jon Henson; produced by Simon Channing Williams and Gail Egan; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 93 minutes. This film is not rated." at which — in an inspired touch of imaginary rock mythmaking — a violent incident not recorded by the camera ends their career on a note of mystery." named Tom and Barry Howe who at the age of 18 are sold by their father to a sleazy British impresario. The story is an uncomfortable reminder of the degree to which rock ’n’ roll for all its vaunted “authenticity ” has always been a traveling circus. From Elvis to Michael Jackson from Kiss to Marilyn Manson the lines between pop artist and sideshow freak have always been blurry." Luke Treadaway (Barry Howe) Bryan Dick (Paul Day) Howard Attfield (Zak Bedderwick) Tom Bower (Eddie Pasquar) Ken Russell (himself) Tania Emery (Laura Ashworth) and Sean Harris (Nick Sidney)." adapted from a 1977 novel by Brian Aldiss gives each twin a distinct personality. Tom (Harry Treadaway) the more physically robust of the two is also the gentler one; Barry (Luke Treadaway) who has a congenital heart problem is a lighted stick of dynamite. The actors evoke the suffocating carnal knowledge these two separate beings are forced to share and that they publicly flaunt in an early performance in which they suddenly turn their heads and kiss on the mouth." their diabolical owner Zak Bedderwick (Howard Attfield) a former vaudeville child star whisks them to his secluded country mansion Humbleden Hall. There they are ruthlessly groomed by an abusive manager Nick Sidney (Sean Harris) into a proto-punk rock band called the Bang Bang and their development is chronicled by Eddie Pasquar (Tom Bower) an American cinéma vérité filmmaker and protégé of D. A. Pennebaker." the ever-present camera trails the twins into a bathroom and pauses at the door as they turn around and flash an accusing look. Is there no privacy? That hostile glare implicates us as well. What are we doing there anyway?" the Howe brothers are brilliantly portrayed by the real-life identical (but not conjoined) twin brothers Harry and Luke Treadaway who play their own instruments. Glowering at the camera with wet-lipped insolence these skinny young actors with their insinuating stares exude an eerie children-of-the-damned intensity accentuated by the movie’s phantasmagoric look." invented to describe films like “This Is Spinal Tap” that signal their satiric intentions with sly winks and gentle nudges doesn’t really apply to “Brothers ” which lurches toward pathos and tragedy rather than humor. Pretending to look back 30 years it also evokes the mid-1970’s British rock scene with a wild thrashing immediacy." 
8132
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28ant.html
turning drastic differences of scale and perspective into clever visual jokes. The title character is Lucas Nickle (Zach Tyler Eisen) a picked-on suburban boy who takes revenge on the bullies who bug him by wreaking havoc on the ants who have built their colony on his lawn. In the ant world he is known as the Destroyer and Zoc the ant wizard (Mr. Cage) devises a potion that will cut this menace down to size. Suddenly Lucas awakens to find himself a prisoner of the ants and then thanks to the intercession of Hova (Ms. Roberts) an apprentice ant himself." based on the illustrated book by John Nickle; music by John Debney; produced by Mr. Davis Tom Hanks and Gary Goetzman; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 90 minutes." as Zoc explains to Lucas in a quiet didactic scene. His vision of a society in which every member does his assigned task for the benefit of the group — from each according to his ability to each according to his need more or less — strikes Lucas as a stark contrast with the selfish unfriendly ways of humans. Later he will find a useful application of Zoc’s lesson which he might also have gleaned from watching an old strike movie from the 1930’s." Nicolas Cage (Zoc) Meryl Streep (The Ant Queen) Paul Giamatti (Stan Beals) Regina King (Kreela) Bruce Campbell (Fugax) Lily Tomlin (Mommo) Zach Tyler Eisen (Lucas Nickle) Cheri Oteri (Doreen Nickle) and Larry Miller (Fred Nickle)." ” directed by John A. Davis and based on a book by John Nickle is the latest computer-animated plea for interspecies understanding. Like “Over the Hedge ” it asks us to consider that creatures we regard as pests might be people too or at least that they might speak in the voices of movie stars. Those tiny six-legged marauders raiding your child’s backyard birthday party — what if they were really Nicolas Cage and Julia Roberts? And what if their queen was none other than Meryl Streep? Would you still stomp them squish them or scorch them with a magnifying glass?" while we anticipate the inevitable kiddie-animation extravaganza featuring lovable anthropomorphized roaches termites or E. coli bacteria — hey they have feelings too! — “The Ant Bully” provides a few moments of inventiveness and wit. Not too many mind you. The bug theme was big news for Pixar and DreamWorks back in 1998 the year of “A Bug’s Life”“ and “Antz ” and this movie a behind-the-curve effort from Warner Brothers is unlikely to put either of them in the shade." though “The Ant Bully” is adequate rather than enchanting. Unsure of its ability to charm it compensates with noise sentiment and low humor the usual synthetic stew served  to children — or “pupas ” as the movie calls them." I don’t know. Eat a lot of jellybeans. Its allegorical implications aside “The Ant Bully” is a hectic busy slapdash entertainment with some inspired visual flights. Among these are the wasps who hover like attack helicopters and the slow-moving ruminant caterpillars who provide delicious food in a rather unappetizing manner. There is the usual assortment of animated-feature supporting characters: vainglorious goofball (Bruce Campbell); sassy strong woman (Regina King); wise elder (Ricardo Montalban); goofy comic relief (etc.)." Zoc’s words are more likely to conjure a bittersweet vision of corporate synergy. If only the various divisions could work together like happy ants they just might ..." and the climactic battle against him though it drags on a bit too long does have its thrills and surprises. (To appreciate fully the vast disparities between the human and insect points of view you may want to seek out an IMAX  theater where “The Ant Bully” will be playing in eye-popping headache-inducing 3-D.)" 
8133
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28anot.html
the jock hottie Jarod (Jonathan Chase) a nerd named Griff (Mitch Morris) and the fiercely flamboyant Nico (Jonah Blechman). Goaded by Muffler (Ashlie Atkinson) a brash lesbian lady killer who throws raucous parties at her fabulous apartment (the “maxi-pad”) the boys make a pact to  experience anal sex before college." like a repellent cameo by Richard Hatch are merely desperate. Few can be described in a family newspaper." a nicely built and frequently undressed cast —  is offset by a worldview that casts the lone African-American character as a libidinous go-go boy and finds it clever to provide subtitles for an Asian cheerleader speaking English. Skewering one status quo while pandering to another “Another Gay Movie” is exactly what  its title presumes to subvert." Jonathan Chase (Jarod) Jonah Blechman (Nico) Mitch Morris (Griff) Scott Thompson (Mr. Wilson) Graham Norton (Mr. Puckov) Ashlie Atkinson (Muffler) and Lypsinka (Mrs. Wilson)." rollicking and exceedingly raunchy attempt to turn “American Pie” into “American Quiche.” The writer and director Todd Stephens works from a recipe  that calls for shooting fish in barrels roasting them over flaming attitude and then garnishing with obscenity vulgarity and naughty bits. This narrowest of niche movies is as broad as can be whether the target is mainstream movie tropes (true love under your nose) or subculture types (drug-addled circuit queens hardcore German bondage freaks)." Philadelphia and Los Angeles." based on a story by Tim Kaltenecker and Mr. Stephens; director of photography Carl Bartels; edited by Jeremy Stulberg; production designer Chris Anthony Miller; produced by Jesse Adams and Karen Jaroneski; released by TLA Releasing. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8134
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/28/movies/28amer.html
” not least of which is a title so meaningless it would make Wittgenstein’s head explode." and that the movie examines a little-known controversy of its operation; namely certain ambiguities surrounding the 16th Amendment to the Constitution that have led some to argue — to the point of winning lawsuits against the I.R.S. — that there is no law requiring citizens to pay income tax." two minutes on Google reveals that it was never written down despite frequent attribution to an article he contributed to the 1932 Enciclopedia Italiana. President Ronald Reagan once reminded us that facts are stupid things. More recently Al Gore reminded us that polemical documentaries like ecosystems live and die by them." ” which begins with an intriguing investigation into the methodology of the I.R.S. then extrapolates its conclusions into a tirade against the Federal Reserve the  Homeland Security Department Congress presidents of the United States (all of them) judges (all of them) war computer voting machines the national ID card microchip implants overzealous police the banking conspiracy and so on. The mess we’re in never looked so messy." meaning one thing to President Bush and quite another to the singer George Michael. For the filmmaker Aaron Russo freedom in America ceased to exist with the establishment of the Federal Reserve System in 1913 at which point money became an abstraction and a shadowy cartel of bankers initiated their plans for world domination." produced and directed by Aaron Russo; director of photography James Salisbury; edited by Mr. Russo and Gabe Miller; music by David Benoit; released by Cinema Libre Studio. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 105 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie offers this definition from no less an authority than Mussolini: “Fascism should more properly be called corporatism because it is the merger of state and corporate power.”" 
8135
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/26/movies/26suns.html
in terms of either its narrative or its function-over-form visual style. But tucked in between all the hurt and the jokes the character development and the across-the-board terrific performances is a surprisingly sharp look at contemporary America one that sets the metaphor of the stage (and by extension competition) against the cherished myth of the open road. Like her father who’s peddling a get-rich scheme and like her brother who yearns to fly the coop by becoming a jet pilot Olive lives in a fantasy world that has become more real than her own life. When she watches a video of Miss America accepting her tiara the image flickers in her eyeglasses but it might as well be projected on her frontal lobe." Toni Collette (Sheryl) Steve Carell (Frank) Paul Dano (Dwayne) Abigail Breslin (Olive) and Alan Arkin (Grandpa)." Tim Suhrstedt; edited by Pamela Martin; music by Mychael Danna; production designer Kalina Ivanov; produced by Marc Turtletaub David T. Friendly Peter Saraf Albert Berger and Ron Yerxa; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 101 minutes." the jokes and the sensibility are more kind than not in “Little Miss Sunshine ” which motors forward on the strength of its seamless ensemble and direction and its touching human comedy. Mr. Arndt unleashes scads of deftly funny one-liners and situations the best of which float along on sheer absurdity like the collision between some pornographic rags and Marcel Proust. The jokes don’t land as lightly when they come with a message tied to the punch line especially as the Hoovers near the Little Miss Sunshine competition a ghastly spectacle that features underage fleshpots writhing to pounding beats while weighed down by sequins and parental vainglory. Graham Greene’s description of Shirley Temple’s appeal as “interestingly decadent”  could not be more apt." but nothing anyone sentient hasn’t heard before." both as individuals and as a family. There is engine trouble naturally which leads to a delightful sight gag that involves Richard tucked behind the wheel as the rest of the family pushes — then scrambles inside — the bus. An emblem of an earlier possibly more freewheeling era this temporary mobile home seems an unlikely vehicle for transformation but it takes the Hoovers across state lines and through a series of emotional and psychological roadblocks. In between the fast-food joints hot tears and hurled insults there are wide-open spaces and a suggestion of freedom along with a sign for the “Carefree Highway ” an actual state route that here seems more like a cruel joke." perhaps but the family that piles into an old Volkswagen bus the color of a banana surely has more entertainment value. That at least seems true of the happily (for us) unhappy relations at the center of the bittersweet comedy of dysfunction “Little Miss Sunshine ” a tale about genuine faith and manufactured glory that unwinds in the American Southwest but more rightly takes place at the terminus of the American dream where families are one bad break away from bankruptcy." the Little Miss Sunshine competition comes accompanied by a whiff of class snobbishness. Richard weighs in as a total middle manager the type of man who has read one too many self-help books. But as the nods to Proust and Nietzsche suggest — and that VW bus with its intimation of 1960’s rebellion underscores — the Hoovers are clearly not meant to be cut from the same tacky cloth as the rest of the pageant parents who smother their daughters in spray-on bronzer and expectation. In a different film one not as generous of spirit (or funny) that snobbishness might seem insufferable. Yet there’s a melancholy here that clings to this family which however triumphant and united may well remain stuck in the national Hooversville located at the crossroads of hope and despair." and directed by the husband-and-wife team of Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris seasoned music-video directors making an effortless feature-film debut “Little Miss Sunshine” relates the story of the Hoovers just around the time that the youngish harried Sheryl (Toni Collette) takes her suicidal brother Frank (Steve Carell) under her wing. (“I’m glad you’re here ” she says. “That makes one of us ” he answers.) Straight from the hospital Frank moves in with Sheryl’s family including her 7-year-old daughter Olive (Abigail Breslin); teenage son Dwayne (Paul Dano); husband Richard (Greg Kinnear); and father-in-law a heroin-tooting crank simply called Grandpa (Alan Arkin)." a dim burrow filled with clutter and noise. Eccentric families are a mainstay of comedy and at least in their schematized personalities (the sullen son the desperate dad) the Hoovers are not much different from most despite the vials of white powder tucked in Grandpa’s fanny pack. They may be more downmarket than Wes Anderson’s Tenenbaums and a lot scruffier than the average big-studio clan. (Their kitchen looks as if it hasn’t been remodeled since Alice slaved for the Bradys.) But like most American comedy families they are also a familiar social microcosm a group of radically individualized souls in search of one another." a child beauty pageant called Little Miss Sunshine. Soon after Frank moves in Olive a dumpling of a child with oversize glasses and a seemingly endless reserve of optimism receives unexpected word that she has been invited to compete in Little Miss Sunshine just days away.  Short of cash if not bright ideas Richard decides to pile the fractious reluctant brood into the family’s antique VW bus so that Olive can live out her dream and prove herself a winner. Much like Steinbeck’s Joads the Beverly Hillbillies and millions of other westward-ho pioneers the notably named Hoovers set a course for California the land of sunshine bleached teeth and eternal promise leaving dusty Albuquerque behind." 
8136
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/26/movies/26love.html
adultery divorce lawyers and pots of money: Paul Yule’s documentary “The Photographer His Wife Her Lover” wades through the seamy mess surrounding the estate of the Brooklyn-born photographer O. Winston Link who died in 2001. Nobody comes off well in this he-said she-said they-said exercise in mudslinging self-aggrandizement and moral one-upmanship least of all the lawyers and prosecutors who twice helped to convict Link’s wife Conchita of theft." avidly pursued by the Westchester County prosecutor Jeanine Pirro resulted in her conviction for stealing 1 400 photographs and assets valued at more than $1 million. Ms. Link maintains that those photographs don’t exist. They have never been found. After serving a five-year sentence she was arrested again in 2003 after a sting operation caught her trying to sell 31 missing prints on eBay." ” which portrayed the couple as happily married. Although the new documentary has a generous selection of Link’s wonderful photographs it is not only inconclusive about who victimized whom it is also visually prosaic. This is the kind of story better left to tabloid television or the pages of Vanity Fair. A sad commentary on the inflated art market and its vulture mentality camouflaged by highbrow trappings the movie comes across as an example of the very exploitation it observes with a raised eyebrow." the year he married Ms. Link; he was 73 and she 48. She became his agent and aggressively marketed his work whose value skyrocketed." 209 West Houston Street South Village. Running time: 79 minutes. This film is not rated." she had begun an affair with a consultant to gravel and asphalt companies Edward Hayes whom she married shortly after her husband’s death.  She countered Link’s charges of theft and abuse with accusations that she was the one physically abused and produced photos of her injuries to back up her story. Link’s lawyer J. Edward Meyer who appears in the film maintained that her facial wounds came from plastic surgery." HIS WIFE HER LOVER" portions of which are woven throughout the movie Ms. Link back in prison calmly states her side of the story. Some of what she says convinces and some doesn’t. In her version of events her husband became increasingly senile paranoid and vindictive in his declining years and was encouraged by his lawyer in his belief that he was being victimized. The scandal of course only increased the value of Link’s work." 
8137
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/26/movies/26dars.html
French and Malayalam with English subtitles; director of photography Sébastien Pentecouteau; edited by Anny Danché; produced by Manuel de La Roche and Tristan Frachon; released by IFC First Take. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 92 minutes. This film is not rated." who is Dutch wants everyone to share his captivation: watching the white-garbed faithful line up by the thousands for a smile and a cuddle his camera is guilty of lingering on the faces of the beautiful. Abundant shots of lush foliage pastel-toned rooftops and sizzling sunsets are also a far cry from the images of Indian deprivation we’re accustomed to seeing on the news." “Darshan: The Embrace” is a glowing introduction to the life and work of Sri Mata Amritanandamayi Devi the so-called hugging saint. Recognized worldwide for her spiritual and humanitarian work Amma as she’s more commonly known ministers to the poor of India with food and open arms often for more than 20 hours at a stretch." leaving a movie long on adulation but short on specifics. (Who for instance finances her extensive charity work including millions of dollars to the victims of the 2004 tsunami?) Filling our heads with pretty pictures and not much else “Darshan: The Embrace” is likely to leave audiences enchanted but unenlightened." eavesdropping as she offers advice on everything from caring for a skin condition to the correct way to feed an elephant. (The elephant unbelievably looks ecstatic.)" 
8138
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/21/movies/21mons.html
making his feature film debut is a lively storyteller. “Monster House” also bears the unmistakable creative stamp of Mr. Zemeckis and his fellow executive producer Steven Spielberg. There are a few moments of amusing self-conscious auto-homage: a Wilson basketball with a human face smudged onto it; plumbing fixtures that come to life with the slinky movements of “Jurassic Park” dinosaurs; a suburban Halloween out of “E.T.” But the deeper imprint of Mr. Spielberg’s influence in particular lies in the film’s evocation of childhood as a state of wonder tinged with darkness. The absence of supervising grown-ups is both scary and exciting and the monstrous house will remind audience members of all ages of the pleasure of being frightened without pushing the fear past comfortable limits." to the technology nerds in the audience an interesting refinement of animation techniques. Like Robert Zemeckis’s “Polar Express ” “Monster House” (for which Mr. Zemeckis served as an executive producer) uses the digitally captured movements of real actors rather than computer-generated algorithms as the basis for its animated images. The people in the movie look a little like molded-plastic figurines (the ones in “Polar Express” looked more like porcelain dolls) but their gestures are uncannily fluid and unpredictable making you appreciate the quality of the acting more than you generally do in animated films. The postures and gestures of DJ (Mitchell Musso) and his pals — a pudgy fellow named Chowder (Sam Lerner) and a preppy redhead named Jenny (Spencer Locke) — have an authentically loose and antic look. They seem like real kids rather than like super-cute big-headed cartoon moppets." too or at least like characters drawn from the rich tradition of plucky intellectually curious kiddie-lit heroes. DJ is descended from Encyclopedia Brown (perhaps by way of Jimmy Neutron but never mind) and Jenny bears some temperamental resemblance to Harriet the Spy. I’m sure Chowder will remind you of someone in your fifth-grade class wherever or whenever that was. The adults in the picture — DJ’s dithering parents (Fred Willard and Catherine O’Hara) who take off for a dental convention the day before Halloween Zee (Maggie Gyllenhaal) the grumpy sitter who takes their place and the bumbling town policemen (Kevin James and Nick Cannon) — are predictably useless. The children left to their own devices must conquer the evil that all but unnoticed flourishes in their midst." it may sound like extravagant praise — or maybe like faint praise. In any case modesty can be numbered among the picture’s virtues along with ingenuity. It runs a trim 86 minutes — during which I observed not a single fidget from my 7-year-old companions — and does not waste time on the Valuable Lessons routinely pasted onto family movies like nutrition labels on boxes of sugary cereal to assure anxious parents that the junk has some value. “Monster House” is unpretentious smartly written (by Dan Harmon Rob Schrab and Pamela Pettler) and a lot of fun." mysterious house across the street — is literally brought to life in “Monster House ” a marvelously creepy animated feature directed by Gil Kenan." Rob Schrab and Pamela Pettler based on a story by Mr. Harmon and Mr. Schrab; director of photography Xavier Perez Grobet; edited by Adam P. Scott and Fabienne Rawley; imagery and animation by Sony Pictures Imageworks Inc.; music by Douglas Pipes; production designer Ed Verreaux; produced by Steve Starkey and Jack Rapke; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 86 minutes." Nick Cannon (Lister) Maggie Gyllenhaal (Zee) Jon Heder (Skull/The Pizza Chef) Kevin James (Landers) Jason Lee (Bones) Sam Lerner (Chowder) Spencer Locke (Jenny) Mitchel Musso (DJ) Catherine O’Hara (Mom) Kathleen Turner (Constance) and Fred Willard (Dad)." the fright stands in for other emotions — grief disappointment loneliness — and the film’s climactic sequences combine hair-raising sensation with dreamy and delicate pathos. The plain suburban setting becomes (as it did in “E.T.” and Mr. Zemeckis’s “Back to the Future” movies) a zone of enchantment in no small part because it seems so real." which sits on a perfectly ordinary suburban block seems like nothing more than the dilapidated home of Mr. Nebbercracker a cranky old man with bad teeth a gruesome comb-over and Steve Buscemi’s voice. It quickly becomes clear — to a plucky boy-detective type named DJ and his two young sidekicks and then to everybody else — that the ramshackle Victorian is possessed by a malevolent demonic force. It seizes toys; it eats people. And since this is a movie aimed at an audience for whom the grosser bodily functions are a perpetual source of laughs it vomits them up again. The house roars belches spits fire and in the end turns out to be...Kathleen Turner." 
8139
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/21/movies/21wate.html
Christopher Doyle; edited by Barbara Tulliver; music by James Newton Howard; production designer Martin Childs; produced by Mr. Shyamalan and Sam Mercer; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 108 minutes." the great director Erich von Stroheim stuck a von in his name and a monocle over an eye and strutted around Hollywood until the producer Irving Thalberg slapped him down to size. (Guess who Hollywood named an Academy Award for?) In “You’ll Never Eat Lunch in This Town Again ” Julia Phillips writes that Martin Scorsese greeted a news report about Sara Jane Moore’s attempt on Gerald Ford’s life with the line “You think this’ll hurt the picture?”  He was worried about “Taxi Driver.” It didn’t hurt thank goodness." Bryce Dallas Howard (Story) Bob Balaban (Harry Farber) Jeffrey Wright (Mr. Dury) Sarita Choudhury (Anna) Freddy Rodriguez (Reggie) Bill Irwin (Mr. Leeds) Jared Harris (Goatee Smoker) and David Ogden Stiers (narrator)." ” along with funny bits some intentional others not and a satisfyingly big “boo!” It’s always pleasant to spend time with Mr. Giamatti who does most of the heavy lifting as a battered soul in need of healing though Cleveland’s haunted eyes suggest it isn’t emotional succor he’s desperately in need of." “Lady in the Water” follows Mr. Shyamalan’s sensationally entertaining breakout (“The Sixth Sense”) a pair of misfires (“Unbreakable” and “Signs”) and a raging bore (“The Village”). As before this film involves characters who when faced with the inexplicable behave less like real people than idealized movie audiences: they believe." since he appears insistent on clinging to myths particularly about innocence and faith that serve the myth of his own genius. In “Lady in the Water ” an unseen narrator (David Ogden Stiers)  explains that while man once listened to “those in the water ” he no longer does which is why we have gone to hell in a handbasket or words to that effect. Apparently those who live in the water now roam the earth trying to make us listen though initially it’s rather foggy as to what precisely we are supposed to hear — the crash of the waves the songs of the sirens the voice of God — until we realize that of course we’re meant to cup our ear to an even higher power: Mr. Shyamalan." sex gods the great outdoors and sometimes though not often enough the movies. Mr. Shyamalan wants to carry us away. He wants to be Steven Spielberg." to whom he has dedicated the film. There are all kinds of bedtime stories those that lull you to sleep and those that keep you anxiously perched at the edge of the bed. This film which involves Cleveland’s  attempt to save a water nymph or what Mr. Shyamalan distractingly calls a narf (Bryce Dallas Howard) has the baggy meandering structure of a parental yarn invented on the fly. And because Mr. Shyamalan works hard to be original the story zigs and zags into unexpected corners like the apartment where five of Cleveland’s neighbors sit rapping in a cloud of smoke or under the pool where a secret world lies in wait." meaning the former boy wonder of Hollywood is no longer content to tuck us into the basket on Elliott’s bicycle in “E.T.” and pedal off to Neverland. Even when he is gleefully blowing the planet to smithereens as he does in “War of the Worlds ” Mr. Spielberg takes on the important issues now leaving the easy kids’ stuff to manqués like Mr. Shyamalan. This can happen when someone matures or at least goes gray. Though in Hollywood — which is something of an enormous incubator where embryonic personalities curl up in their own goo kind of like Neo before he unplugs from the Matrix — growing up is sometimes awfully hard to do." because Mr. Shyamalan has a nice way with actors a fine eye and an actual vision of the world (scary but hopeful). Like Jerry Bruckheimer he also knows how to buy great screen talent no doubt at bargain rates. For this new film he has tapped the excellent Paul Giamatti who plays Mr. Shyamalan’s hero a building manager with the torturous name of Cleveland Heep and in smaller roles the fine character actors Jared Harris and Jeffrey Wright. Also along for the strange ride are other familiar indie-film types like Bob Balaban Sarita Choudhury and Bill Irwin — who having recently gone up against Martha on Broadway in “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? ” seems content to sit in the dark here doing precious little." having made a lot of money for a lot of people was crowned an auteur at an age when he should have been deemed promising. The curse of the auteur fells a lot of filmmakers in and out of the studio system. And paradoxically the weakest link in Mr. Shyamalan’s new film is its story which is filled with strenuously overworked bits and locutions like scrunt (kind of like a devil dog) and the tartutic (monkeylike creatures that descend from the trees). Mr. Shyamalan has yet to realize that one Giamatti in the hand is worth two scrunts in the bush but maybe one day after he’s recovered all those  misplaced marbles he will." shivering and nearly naked next to a swimming pool shaped like a collapsed heart that I realized M. Night Shyamalan had lost his creative marbles. Since Mr. Shyamalan’s marbles are bigger than those of most people or so it would seem from the evidence of a new book titled “The Man Who Heard Voices” (and how!) this loss might have been a calamity save for the fact that “Lady in the Water” is one of the more watchable films of the summer. A folly true but watchable." storywise and otherwise. For all its exposition — and as a screenwriter Mr. Shyamalan is certainly one Chatty Cathy — this film could have easily been called “Lady in the Dark.” It’s obscure in more ways than one. Shot by the cinematographer Christopher Doyle best known for his superb work for Wong Kar-wai “Lady in the Water” appears to have been lighted with a book of matches and a dying flashlight. The murky results are generally unlovely if occasionally striking though like Mr. Shyamalan’s decision to have most of the actors deliver most of their lines in a hush as if they were courtiers tendering precious gifts the low illumination does help create an air of claustrophobic intimacy." while Ms. Howard’s character the regrettably  named Story spends a lot of the film wet she’s one of those juiceless virginal fantasies who inspire pure thoughts noble deeds and stifled yawns. Disney’s Little Mermaid comes off like a tramp by comparison which suggests that Mr. Shyamalan needs to add a fairy-tale revisionist like Angela Carter to his bedtime reading." 
8140
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/21/movies/21shor.html
marital sex and the fantasy lives of children this six-film sampling offers a variety of moods and styles. The primary-hued “La Perra ” directed by Hugo Maza of Chile is a delightfully perverse tale of a stale married couple whose maid is their unwitting aphrodisiac while “United We Stand ” by Hans Petter Moland of Norway is a witty and graceful metaphor for the emergence of young ideas from old habits." and in Jane Malaquias’s “Old Woman’s Step ” the buttery light of a Brazilian fishing village accompanies an old woman as she sets out to sell a chicken." ” written (in Spanish with English subtitles) and directed by Hugo Maza; “We Have Decided Not to Die ” written and directed by Daniel Askill; “United We Stand ” written (in Norwegian with English subtitles) by Are Sjaastad and directed by Hans Petter Moland; “Antichrist ” written (in Polish with English subtitles) and directed by Adam Guzinski; “The Old Woman’s Shop ” written (in Portuguese with English subtitles) and directed by Jane Malaquias; “Ring of Fire ” written and directed by Andreas Hykade. Released by New Yorker Films; at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village.  Total program running time: 95 minutes. These films are not rated." shorts programs offer a way to reach beyond specialty audiences. Both genres are represented here and both are intimately concerned with the pleasures and pains of the flesh. The Australian director Daniel Askill’s “We Have Decided Not to Die” is a visually stunning imagining of human rituals but it’s the German Andreas Hykade’s animated western "Ring of Fire ” that will really mess with your head. As a pair of frustrated cowboys trail beckoning women and pulsing vaginas across a Dali-esque landscape the wonderful world of Disney seems a million miles away.""or animated and experimental films shorts programs offer a way to reach beyond specialty audiences. Both genres are represented here and both are intimately concerned with the pleasures and pains of the flesh. The" short films are often slighted as little more than the training wheels of the film industry. Yet mastering the form demands technical and narrative skills most feature directors lack and for audiences exhausted by today’s bloated extravaganzas “The World According to Shorts” is an eclectic palate cleanser." 
8141
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/21/movies/21life.html
it begins a precipitous decline that ends with her death." ” an admiring portrait of the Silver Belles a troupe of veteran Harlem tap dancers between the ages of 84 and 96 is a valuable historical document and a useful how-to movie about making the most of old age. Bertye  Lou Wood Cleo Hayes Marion Coles Fay Ray and Elaine Ellis the indefatigably spirited dancers who still perform in matching glitter-encrusted costumes met in the 1930’s as chorus dancers and reunited in 1985." Ms. MacDonald and Jon Miller; edited by BB Jorissen and Ms. MacDonald; music by Pete Whitman; released by First Run Features. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 80 minutes. This film is not rated." when they danced at the Apollo Theater the Cotton Club Small’s Paradise and Connie’s Inn and worked with bandleaders like Cab Calloway Duke Ellington and Jimmy Lunceford. In one clip Ms. Wood the group’s feisty senior member is shown dancing beside Bill Robinson." Ms. Hayes falls down a flight of subway stairs endures months of painful rehabilitation and returns to the stage. Ms. Coles (the widow of the legendary dancer Honi Coles) has to have a pacemaker installed. Ms. Ellis perseveres through radiation therapy for cancer." 
8142
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/21/movies/21girl.html
Don Burgess; edited by Sheldon Kahn and Wendy Greene Bricmont; music by Teddy Castellucci; production designer Jane Musky; produced by Gavin Polone and Arnon Milchan; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 110 minutes." a writer on “The Simpsons” here earning his first big-screen credit may not have had Ms. Close much less the Sonic Youth frontwoman Kim Gordon in mind when he wrote this film. But he might as well have since unwittingly or not it perfectly expresses what Ms. Gordon once called the “fear of a female planet.” In “My Super Ex-Girlfriend ” G-Girl rockets around saving the day in skirts and high heels like some nitro-fueled Carrie Bradshaw outshining her dweeb of a boyfriend at every turn. So of course he dumps her. Who cares?  Good riddance to bad-boyfriend rubbish. This super chick may be super nuts but when trouble comes calling as it tends to do in the big city who you gonna call? Wall-buster!" however physically demanding Jenny is a keeper. Alas as if by clockwork or the professional lout’s handbook she turns out to be wildly insecure possessive needy the whole crazy-woman nine yards which means that at least as far as the filmmakers are concerned she’s both a drag and a threat." and whether you find its characterization of the spurned she-devil a sexist cliché (which it is) or an amusing sexist cliché (which it also is reservedly)." Luke Wilson (Matt Saunders) Anna Faris (Hannah Lewis) Eddie Izzard (Professor Bedlam/Barry) Rainn Wilson (Vaughn Haige) and Wanda Sykes (Carla Dunkirk)." ” but funny. The casting seems as if it should have been equally breezy with Uma Thurman doing double duty as a New York neurotic Jenny Johnson and a secret superhero G-Girl who flies through the air putting out fires though only when her drab brown hair turns a costly shade of Hamptons blond." a single guy who has one of those dream jobs and Manhattan pads that seem to exist only in the minds of Hollywood filmmakers. One day on the subway Matt spurred on by his pal Vaughn (Rainn Wilson) strikes up a conversation with a woman busily paying no mind to anyone else. Before long he and the stranger he first knows as an art dealer then as a crusader are tussling in one of the kinkier sex scenes to earn a PG-13 rating as in: “parents strongly cautioned” that Jenny makes like a battering ram executing night moves that crack the wall break the bed and leave her dazed partner rather unbelievably intact. And yes there are jokes about that superhero name." like your appreciation for a cast that includes Eddie Izzard as the villainous Professor Bedlam as well as your tolerance for junky-looking cinematography and Mr. Reitman’s cheerfully slapdash direction." or in the case of the director Ivan Reitman of “Ghostbusters” fame hope for the best." soon replaced in Matt’s affections by the nice naturally blond Hannah (Anna Faris). Those who rooted for Glenn Close even while admitting that the boiled bunny was a wee bit excessive may enjoy the sight of G-Girl punching a skylight into her ex’s ceiling." 
8143
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/21/movies/21cler.html
by the look of things but certainly quite a bit more than $27 000) to good use shelling out for some tasty music permissions an imaginative custom-built set (designed by Robert Holtzman) a trained donkey (don’t ask) and to give an aerial perspective on his show-stopping musical number a crane." bestiality and related topics is so evidently childish that it is hard to be offended or even especially provoked when he tries to test the limits of taste. Unlike “Dogma ” his misunderstood satire on religion “Clerks II” is not really interested in smashing taboos or exposing hypocrisy. The characters talk dirty as a way of passing the time dispelling boredom and expressing their squeamish fascination with the messy weirdness of being human." as well as something of a Hollywood player and a glimmer of tolerant adult wisdom shines through the scatology and willful immaturity. “Clerks II” has a dirty mind but its heart is pure." you may recall were a golden age of cheaply made movies about white guys in their 20’s sitting around doing nothing. This is not a genre that has spawned very many sequels. The white guys who made those movies either faded away went on to bigger things or kept making variations on the same picture again and again." Kevin Smith the director of “Clerks” and now 12 years later of “Clerks II ” seems both typical and exceptional. After the success of “Clerks ” his debut a black-and-white study in suburban convenience-store stasis  made for $27 000 he did go on to bigger (though not always better) things: among them “Mallrats ” “Chasing Amy ” “Dogma” and “Jersey Girl.” But he also kept coming back to the themes and attitudes — and to a few of the characters — that made “Clerks” an especially durable example of its type." I find myself less and less sympathetic to movies that celebrate the revolt against adulthood which have more to do with promoting an endless hedonistic consumerism than with any meaningful assertion of individual freedom. But Mr. Smith’s sincerity is disarming and his love for his characters even at their weakest or meanest is hard not to share." directed and edited by Kevin Smith; director of photography David Klein; music by James L. Venable; production designer Robert Holtzman; produced by Scott Mosier; released by MGM and the Weinstein Company. Running time: 98 minutes." but they also point toward the buried spring of pathos that bubbles ever closer to the surface as the movie wanders toward its end. Randal and Dante after all are no longer feckless 20-somethings. They are a few years into their 30’s at an age where a lack of ambition can start to look cowardly and pathetic less a form of resistance to social norms than a sign of psychic defeat." utterly sincere speech that provides the film’s emotional climax — is Randal (Jeff Anderson) the less responsible half of the underachieving twosome whose lives seem not to have changed much since the first movie. Along with his best friend Dante (Brian O’Halloran) Randal has transferred his cynical lazy carcass from the Quick Stop to Mooby’s a hamburger franchise whose product names are both revolting and eerily plausible. (The signature dessert is called a Cow Pie.) Dante always more of a worrier and a planner than his buddy is finally ready to move on. He is about to quit Jersey for Florida with Emma (Jennifer Schwalbach) his jittery domineering fiancée whose father has promised Dante a job." blithely stomping through the minefield of contemporary cultural sensitivities is the most extreme dramatic embodiment of this sensibility. His social interactions are almost entirely abusive especially when it comes to Elias (Trevor Fehrman) a delicate 19-year-old Christian “Lord of the Rings” fan who completes the Mooby’s work force." Jeff Anderson (Randal) Rosario Dawson (Becky) Jason Mewes (Jay) Trevor Fehrman (Elias) Jennifer Schwalbach (Emma) Jason Lee (Lance) and Wanda Sykes Earthquake and Kevin Weisman (Mooby’s customers)." what makes “Clerks II” both winning and (somewhat unexpectedly) moving is its fidelity to the original “Clerks” ethic of hanging out talking trash and refusing all worldly ambition. If anything the sequel is more defiant in its disdain for the rat race elevating the white-guy-doing-nothing prerogative from a lifestyle choice to a moral principle. This principle is upheld by Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Mr. Smith) fixtures of the director’s universe who function as Greek chorus and comic relief interrupting the usual barrage of non sequiturs and smutty jokes with even more gratuitous filth and absurdity." at the familiar Quick Stop minimarket in Leonardo N.J. before switching to color and a fast-food restaurant down the road — can be taken either as Mr. Smith’s sentimental homecoming or as evidence of arrested development. His filmmaking technique charmingly rudimentary when he started out has not developed very far but then again aesthetic polish has never been among his priorities." a good sport as well as a nimble actress (her professionalism is really what holds “Clerks II” together) first appears on screen in the middle of a grossly candid discussion of sexual etiquette to which she contributes her point of view without blushing or breaking stride." the Mooby’s manager whose toenails he paints in the back office. The conventional romantic-comedy outlines of the story emerge almost casually and they are camouflaged by the film’s humor which is gleefully and abrasively obscene." 
8144
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/21/movies/21brie.html
written by Ms. Feuer and John Militello; “Gold” written and directed by Armen Kazazian. Released by Picture This! Entertainment. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Total program running time: 106 minutes. These films are not rated." with results of interest to precisely three demographics: programmers of gay film festivals admirers of barely legal rough trade and connoisseurs of cliché. If you don’t belong to any of these categories but are dragged to the movie by someone who does suggest staying home and renting “Boys Briefs 2” instead. You can tell them I said it’s the “Citizen Kane” of gay omnibus movies and it will be much easier for you to pretend you are tired and leave." ” though we do pass through a hysterically stylized patch of rural New Zealand courtesy of the director Welby Ings. His “Boy” turns Goth nonsense up to 11 burying a trite crime story under a mulch of 1990’s music video mannerisms. The Paris of “Gigolo ” directed by Bastian Schweitzer is an improvement when its hilarious Euro-trash styling reminds us that the City of Light is also the city of petulant Algerian rent boys given to existential interior monologues." ” the client is a painter going blind. In the appropriately titled “Rock Bottom ” by Mary Feuer he is a pathetic writer. Surprisingly there is not one film about a mediocre filmmaker exploiting the talents of a needy youngster. Unfortunately there are six." 
8145
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/21/movies/21boxe.html
” “Shadowboxer” explores the heavy psychological baggage handed from fathers to sons in this case a legacy of murder perpetuated by men who grew up admiring their fathers’ skill and confidence with firearms and eventually played copycat. Rose was married to Mikey’s father who was also a killer for hire. Explaining her past she tells of having once belonged to a Weathermen-like radical group that accidentally blew itself up." extreme violence and profanity and sex that stops just short of pornography." the producer of “Monster’s Ball ” “Shadowboxer” recycles the same themes that drove its more somber forerunner this time in a “Pulp Fiction” style with lush saturated color and surreal trimmings. As it gleefully smashes boundaries and blurs the line between comedy and melodrama it dares you to collapse into laughter." ” a gaudy thriller saturated in sex and violence is an extravagance that leaves you with your mouth hanging open — partly in admiration of its audacity and partly in disbelief at its preposterousness. Playing one of the most unlikely couples in screen history Helen Mirren and Cuba Gooding Jr. are Rose and Mikey contract killers and lovers living in Philadelphia who happen to be stepmother and stepson. And oh yes Rose is dying of cancer and eventually exits the world with the kind of bang not seen since Jeanne Moreau’s self-annihilation in “Going Places.”" and the fact that it is interracial and intergenerational (Ms. Mirren is 22 years older than Mr. Gooding) lends it an extra transgressive kick. I haven’t seen a black man and a white woman make love like this in an American movie since Ellen Barkin and Laurence Fishburne tore at each other in “Bad Company” in 1995. Although I suspect that this explicitness will damage the film’s already marginal commercial prospects I applaud the film (and the actors) for putting it in our faces at a time when Hollywood has turned squeamish. (In fact “Shadowboxer” is independently produced and released and unencumbered by studio strictures.)" Rose Vickie and her son live like an anonymous suburban family hidden in the witness protection program. Although they hope Clayton never catches up with them they don’t seem particularly strict about maintaining their false identities. Of course Clayton shows up and the story ends with a final nasty twist on the family legacy." the mob physician they summon to check out Vickie after she gives birth and his drug-addicted girlfriend Precious (Mo’Nique). The doctor like all the men in the movie is a selfish sexual conquistador. But the worst of the lot is Clayton a sociopath who when interrupted during rough sex by voices in the next room rolls off the woman under him opens the door and shoots his bodyguard in the foot. (This is when Mr. Dorff in a rare instance of a Hollywood actor baring it all flashes a glimpse of full-frontal nudity.)" especially that of Rose and Mikey are strictly theoretical constructions. Even Ms. Mirren one of the world’s great actors can’t make this couple believable although she gives herself entirely to her character a disenchanted political radical turned greedy hit woman. Mr. Gooding trudges through his role with a poker face exuding an air of embattled nobility that belies his deadly occupation. As a character Mikey barely exists." ” in which Billy Bob Thornton’s character a death-row prison guard from a white racist family coupled with a condemned killer’s African-American wife (Halle Berry) who didn’t know what her lover did for a living. Although the interracial relationship in “Shadowboxer ” with its May-November twist is even more far-fetched it’s not as fraught with potential conflict." a sadistic mob kingpin who lives in a mansion with his pregnant wife Vickie (Vanessa Ferlito) and a pet zebra that prances on the front lawn commissions Rose and Mikey to assassinate several of his mob associates and his wife in one fell swoop. Just as Rose is about to dispose of Vickie in her bedroom Vickie’s water breaks and she begins to give birth. Rose perhaps because she’s terminally ill takes pity plays midwife and to Mikey’s displeasure insists they spirit the mother and baby to safety." 
8146
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/21/movies/21azum.html
Ryuhei Kitamura whose earlier films include the  cult film “Versus ” brings nothing new to the samurai-swordsman game other than some styling shorts for the whelps and a miniskirt for Azumi. The abbreviated costumes show off the performers’ leg muscles nicely which proves particularly crucial to Ms. Ueto who looks best and certainly most convincing when standing stock still the camera gazing adoringly upward. A wispy beauty with a lower lip as big as an airbag and no discernible acting chops she  seems barely big enough to lift her sword which may be part of her appeal at least to a certain demographic. Those who like their tough girls with a whiff of sweat may be disappointed." Shun Oguri (Nachi) Hiroki Narimiya (Ukiha) Kenji Kohashi (Hyuga) Takatoshi Kaneko (Amagi) Yuma Ishigaki (Nagara) Yoshio Harada (Master Gessai) and Jo Odagiri (Bijomaru Mogami)." this 2003 action flick tracks the blood-spurting adventures of its title character a young female assassin who wields a lethally mean sword. In feudal  Japan the orphaned Azumi (played by the actress and pop singer Aya Ueto) is hotfooting it across rolling hills and dangerous dales with her fascistic mentor a samurai called Master Gessai (Yoshio Harada) and a posse of cute male comrades all of whom look like headliners for boy bands and probably are. Having raised his murderous crew since childhood the Master has vowed to purge Japan of its feuding warlords body count — along with narrative logic and moral reason — be damned." Ms. Ueto looks especially ridiculous going blade-to-blade with a giggly psycho (Jo  Odagiri) who with his nose forever buried in a red rose murderously swans about in flowing white robes and flip-flops like some demonic refugee from a day spa. The scene-stealing Mr. Odagiri has been better served in films like Seijun Suzuki’s “Princess Raccoon” and Kiyoshi Kurosawa’s spooky “Bright Future ” but he does add a dash of brio to this otherwise unmemorable romp. Which is why it’s too bad that for “Azumi 2: Death or Love ” the inevitable 2005 sequel this actor (spoiler alert!) seems to have hung up his roses and robes leaving Ms. Ueto to twirl her skirt solo." with English subtitles) by Rikiya Mizushima and Isao Kiriyama based on the comic by Yu Koyama; director of photography Takumi Furuya; edited by Shuichi Kakesu; production designer Yuji Hayashida; produced by Mataichiro Yamamoto and Toshiaki Nakazawa; released by AsiaVision. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 128 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8147
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/19/movies/19cowg.html
multicultural weirdness splatter-movie tropes and inchoate meat metaphors “Mad Cowgirl” is an underground movie with little sense of grounding; the point is an aggressive pointlessness. The filmmaker Gregory Hatanaka has dedicated the thing to John Cassavetes the demiurge of do-it-yourself cinema and Doris Wishman the goddess of berserk sexploitation pictures like “Behind the Nudist Curtain” and “Satan Was a Lady.”" a naughty pastor (Walter Koenig) and a Sri Lankan doctor (Linton Semage) who speaks in his native tongue subtitled for our benefit although Therese appears to be fluent versed as she is in the lingua franca of the movie a primitive dialect of crazy." Spike Hasegawa and James Avallone; edited by B. N. Lindstrom; produced by Edwin A. Santos; released by Cinema Epoch. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 89 minutes. This film is not rated." James Duval (Thierry) Devon Odessa (Aimee) Vic Chao (Charlie) and Walter Koenig (Pastor Dylan)." rare meat religious loonies and cornball kung-fu television mix it up in “Mad Cowgirl ” the story of uh who knows? “A woman who is dying of a brain disorder begins a surreal journey which descends into violence ” reads one of two synopses offered in the press kit. The alternate “cult version” puts it thus: “A woman hates her job and also the men in her life so she has to kill the 10 Tigers From Kwangtung  to become a better woman.”" 
8148
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14over.html
but also to be forgotten a destiny from which the makers of this remarkable film itself nearly consigned to oblivion do their best to rescue him." who was also Stanley Kubrick’s cinematographer at the time the fictional parts of “Overlord” often look like extensions of the documentary sections which make up  about a quarter of the running time. The story is a simple one. A young man named Tom Beddows (Brian Stirner) leaves his parents and his beloved cocker spaniel and reports for military duty arriving late because of a German air raid. We follow him through his training his brief moments of liberty and the tedium of waiting for combat until finally he hunkers down in a boat for the trip across the channel." Davyd Harries (Jack) Nicholas Ball (Arthur) Julie Neesam (the Girl) Sam Sewell (Trained Soldier) John Franklyn-Robbins (Dad) and Stella Tanner (Mum)." who is brave without a trace of bravado “Overlord” is unusually quiet and thoughtful. The scale and ambition of combat movies has usually been epic but this one is disarmingly lyrical and subjective. At times the documentary passages — aerial tours of France one from a German reconnaissance plane another from an Allied bomber; buildings ablaze in the aftermath of bombings; troop trains loading and unloading — seem to take place within Tom’s mind as he tries to conjure an image of the large historical experience in which his own individual fate plays a small part." John Alcott; edited by Jonathan Gili; music by Paul Glass; produced by James Quinn; released by Janus Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 88 minutes. This film is not rated." and his middle-class English diffidence keeps him at something of a distance. He gets along well enough with the other soldiers and has a brief aching romantic interlude with a girl he meets at a dance. He is stoic and a bit fatalistic accepting the likelihood of his death without evident anguish and writing a consoling letter to his parents to be delivered instead of the official military notice." ” a prize-winning entry in the 1975 Berlin Film Festival is only now receiving an American theatrical release. Whatever the reasons for the delay the film directed by Stuart Cooper and produced with the cooperation of the Imperial War Museum in Britain deserves to join the pantheon of essential World War II combat movies. Unlike most Hollywood war movies it has “action” sequences almost entirely drawn from archival documentaries — German as well as British — which contribute not only to the picture’s realism but also to its dreamlike almost surreal atmosphere." 
8149
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14ohio.html
this nicely naughty indie is full of unexpected pleasures not least the casting of Liza Minnelli as a masturbation guru who encourages frigid women to “liberate your labia!”" a Cleveland advertising executive who has never had an orgasm. Her marriage to Jack (Paul Rudd) a high school biology teacher has suffered as a result and the movie is concerned with the connections they make after separating." Paul Rudd (Jack Chase) Mischa Barton (Kristen Taylor) Miranda Bailey (Sherri) Liza Minnelli (Alyssa Donahue) Danny DeVito (Wayne) Robert John Burke (Binky Bartlett) and Keith David (Coach)." based on a story by Sarah Bird and Mr. Kent; director of photography Ramsey Nickell; edited by Paul Bertino and Michael R. Miller; music by Bruno Coon Todd Homme and Michael Muhlfriedel; production designer Martina Buckley; produced by Miranda Bailey Francey Grace and Amy Salko Robertson; released by Cyan Pictures. Running time: 91 minutes. This film is not rated." here giving a marvelously gentle performance as a roly-poly swimming pool salesman." Los Angeles San Francisco and Cleveland." “The Oh in Ohio” thrums with happy vibes and amiable performances. A delectable if limited actress Ms. Posey locates a few real feelings within her usual goofball shtick. Ditto in a less realized role the hammy Mr. Rudd." 
8150
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14gabr.html
whose fastidious swoop of hair telegraphs his vanity long before his words do the maids and the bohemians the statues and the wife are interchangeable.  Each has been bought paid for and arranged in a consciousness as carefully ordered as the mansion’s great rooms. Uninteresting in and of themselves they exist only to advance his position so much so that when he thinks of his wife and his guests while strolling  one day it’s as if he were itemizing the contents of a safe. And yet when his most prized possession goes missing having left a farewell letter propped up on  a dressing table the blow hits Jean with unexpected force prying him from his facade  like a snail from its shell." Pascal Greggory (Jean Hervey) Claudia Coli (Yvonne) Thierry Hancisse (the Editor in Chief) and Chantal Neuwirth (Madeleine)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Chéreau and Anne-Louise Trividic based on the short story “The Return” by Joseph Conrad; director of photography Éric Gautier; edited by François Gedigier; music by Fabio Vacchi; production designer Olivier Radot; produced by Joseph Strub Serge Catoire and Ferdinanda Frangipane; released by IFC First Take. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." written around 1897 comes without any such place or time markers) two years before the war that will violently sweep away the last vestiges of the 19th century. Madame and monsieur childless and sometime past their fertile prime live in a mansion filled with the kind of luxurious trappings — allegorical paintings and gleaming white statues of women frozen in classical poses — that give such homes the chill of a mausoleum. A fleet of maids impeccably dressed in matching black and white keep the crypt running; every Thursday an army of  bohemians invades providing amusement and social cachet and filling the air with chatter and smoke." using different color  schemes  and editing rhythms to express what the characters themselves cannot always say he  forces air  into a story that  in the writing and the subject can feel moribund on the page. Although you wouldn’t know it to look at most of his films he has a long history directing  for  theater and  opera experience that he has mostly used to his advantage in his work for the cinema. His theater background may help account for the consistently fine acting in his films while his  staging of Wagner  may explain the wonderful fearlessness with which he embraces melodramatic excess." ” a film of eccentric beauty and wild feeling printed words sometimes fill the screen almost obliterating the puny creatures struggling beneath the  type. Directed by the consistently inventive Patrice Chéreau a French filmmaker perhaps best known in  the United States for the historical pageant “Queen Margot” and better remembered for “Those Who Love Me Can Take the Train ” this startling drama recounts the dissolution of a marriage of a couple from the haute bourgeoisie Jean and Gabrielle Hervey played by the supremely well-matched Pascal Greggory  and Isabelle Huppert." very vicious long short story “The Return ” the film concerns a man (Alvan in the original) who having married a woman for whom he apparently feels nothing becomes undone when she leaves him for another. Conrad narrates the story  in a claustrophobic   third-person voice  that immerses us fully in the husband’s point of view while simultaneously allowing us to see the woman hovering at the periphery. Working with the screenwriter Anne-Louise Trividic as he did with two of his finer efforts “Intimacy” and “His Brother ”  Mr. Chéreau opens the story up dividing it more equally between the characters but without compromising Conrad’s meaning or emotional brutality." Mr. Chéreau pushes his characters to the limits of emotion turning  Gabrielle’s face various shades of pink and forcing Jean’s swoop of hair to tumble. Ms. Huppert one of the screen’s great criers (second only to Juliette Binoche) spends much of  the film  with a flush  and damp face suffering in sepulchral silence while Mr.  Greggory brilliantly rages. Both actors keep you riveted even when Mr. Chéreau blows up passages from Conrad’s text cutting away entirely from the performers (making you all the more anxious for their return) or obscuring their images with a well-chosen word (“Stay!”). Together with his extraordinary performers Mr. Chéreau breathes  life into characters who long ago set a course for death." 
8151
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14chan.html
” André Téchiné’s rich warmhearted exploration of cultural collision in contemporary Morocco oscillates between two worlds and two ideas about the meaning of experience." meanwhile has accompanied Sami to Tangier hoping to reconnect with her identical twin sister Aicha (also played by Ms. Azabal) a man-hating observant Muslim who works in a McDonald’s. Their twinship is the most strained of the movie’s several metaphoric pairings." and every scene is filled with light music activity and a sensuous appreciation of landscape. The characters are continually on the move. Even Antoine is too busy most of the time to sit around moping. In the movie’s circular structure Antoine is buried in a mudslide at a rain-drenched building site near the beginning of the film and then the story backtracks only letting us know his fate after the accident is reprised near the end. Mr. Depardieu and Ms. Deneuve who have co-starred many times before give contained unsentimental performances." who briefly lived in Paris and is now the resident groundskeeper of a fancy estate rarely visited by its owners more or less accepts Sami’s ambivalence. “You’re too indecisive but I guess that’s normal ” he observes with a tinge of bitterness. “You’re half Moroccan half French half man half woman. It must be difficult knowing who you are.”" with English subtitles) by Mr. Téchiné Laurent Guyot and Pascal Bonitzer; director of photography Julien Hirsch; edited by Martine Giordano; music by Juliette Garrigues; produced by Paulo Branco; released by Koch Lorber Films. At the Paris Theater 4 West 58th Street. Running time: 95 minutes. This film is not rated." whom she remembers as thin poor and proud is now portly well-to-do and accustomed to giving orders. He has never married and his obsession with the loss of his great love is the chink in his armor that both humanizes him and makes him a little creepy." whose career has stalled and who admits to having had several affairs —  has lost its spark. And Ms. Deneuve plays her as a woman who has buried her youthful dreams and clings to a low-paying job that gives her a sense of independence. She copes with life in a state of mild exasperation." Cécile and Nathan’s bisexual son Sami (Malik Zidi) who lives in Paris appears unannounced with his live-in girlfriend Nadia (Lubna Azabal) and Said (Jabir Elomri) her 9-year-old son by another man. While Nadia who is seriously addicted to tranquilizers languishes in a funk Sami dashes off for trysts with his Moroccan boyfriend Bilal (Nadem Rachati)." the host of a French-Moroccan radio show who lives in Tangier with her much younger husband Nathan (Gilbert Melki) a doctor doesn’t believe in holding onto the past. Moments after her station plays a song whose lyrics insist “we remember nothing ” she receives an anonymous bouquet of roses; without a second thought she tosses them into the trash." Gérard Depardieu (Antoine) Gilbert Melki (Nathan) Lubna Azabal (Nadia/Aicha) Malik Zidi (Sami) Bilal (Nadem Rachati) and Tanya Lopert (Rachel)." it turns out are  from Antoine (Gérard Depardieu) a former lover she hasn’t seen in three decades. A hard-driving engineer who is overseeing the construction of a media center in Tangier Antoine has literally counted the time (31 years 8 months 20 days) since he saw her last. After years spent tracking her down he has come to Morocco expressly to win her back. He is so obsessed that he even considers using witchcraft. The two eventually cross paths in a supermarket when Antoine smashes his nose walking into a glass door and Nathan who is with Cécile hastens to his aid." the characters hover on the line between cultural constructions and fully drawn people. What does Nadia offer Sami who obviously prefers men? How did the twins end up living such radically different lives? The movie doesn’t begin to ask such questions; it doesn’t have the time." ” Mr. Téchiné the great French director is near the peak of his form. Weaving a half  dozen subplots he creates a set of variations on the theme of divided sensibilities tugging one another into states of perpetual unrest and possible happiness. This microcosm of a world in transition might seem painfully schematic had it been conceived by a less subtle filmmaker. But for the most part Mr. Téchiné carries it off without its seeming heavy-handed. When it’s time to end the movie after a swift compact 95 minutes he refuses to wind his stories into a tight knot and lets most of the threads dangle." 
8152
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14warr.html
half-nude teenagers knowing about it insinuates a queasy frisson to the themes of mentorship and initiation with their appeal for trust and relinquishing control." Scott Mechlowicz (Dan Millman) Amy Smart (Joy) Tim DeKay (Coach Garrick) Paul Wesley (Trevor) and Ashton Holmes (Tommy)." this rich slice of spiritualist cheese has been served up on screen by the director Victor Salva best known to audiences for his “Jeepers Creepers” horror movies and perhaps best known to authorities in California as a man who served time in prison in the 1980’s for molesting a 12-year-old boy who had appeared in his movies." when the seminal fact of “Peaceful Warrior” is that for all its manifest corniness this is an achingly sincere and supremely unembarrassed effort to transform an audience for the good. Its heart is very much in the right place — a place that movies all but ignore — but its mind is a mush." attempted suicide a gnarly motorcycle accident and lots of half-nude gymnastics." based on the novel “Way of the Peaceful Warrior” by Dan Millman; director of photography Sharone Meir; edited by Ed Marx; art director Anthony Tremblay; produced by Mark Amin Cami Winikoff Robin Schorr and David Welch; released by Lionsgate. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 120 minutes." “Peaceful Warrior” is blatantly ludicrous. A didactic enlightenment parable couched as a heroic sports flick the film stars Scott Mechlowicz as Millman an arrogant gymnast in Berkeley Calif. who is learning New Age life lessons from a pseudo-Buddhist gas station guru played by Nick Nolte. Mindlessly espousing principles of “no mind” and evidently capable of teleportation this gravel-voiced fortune cookie suggests the missing link between Grizzly Adams and Yoda." 
8153
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14time.html
at first glance like a pretty nice life: an adoring younger boyfriend (Christian Sengewald) a cool job as a fashion photographer a spacious if somewhat disheveled loft apartment. While it turns out that this life — to say nothing of the man living it — is far from perfect it is the only one Romain has and for most of “Time to Leave” (“Le Temps Qui Reste”) he must face the certainty that it will soon be over." who is given a diagnosis of brain cancer and who flatly rejects the treatment that might  offer a slim chance of survival is reckless selfish and abrasively real. He chases his lover away and delights in antagonizing his sister whom he was close to as a child but who is now his principal scapegoat and antagonist. Mr. Poupaud who played Naomi Watts’s straying husband in “Le Divorce ” is certainly beautiful and Romain is the kind of man who heedlessly takes advantage of the power his looks confer. He knows he will be indulged and forgiven and does whatever he can to test the forbearance of the people who care for him. The only person he tells about his illness is his grandmother played in a few indelibly strange scenes by the great Jeanne Moreau." “Time to Leave” stands as a companion to “Under the Sand ” Mr. Ozon’s haunting examination of bereavement and grief. That film built around a subtle and fearless performance by Charlotte Rampling ingeniously used some of the techniques of the Hitchcockian psychological thriller to produce an atmosphere of emotional ambiguity and epistemological confusion. It was above all a meticulous almost clinical evocation of mourning as a mental state in a way the cinematic precursor to Joan Didion’s “Year of Magical Thinking.”" played by Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi. The bond between them acquires a gravity that Romain’s more intimate connections lack and allows Romain to end his life with a gesture that is simultaneously generous and supremely selfish." the melodramatic elements of “Time to Leave” — the moments of emotional display the surges of music — help to insulate the film from sentimentality. Because death is universal and unimaginable its arrival is often an occasion for soothing banality and a less rigorous artist than Mr. Ozon might have had his hero stop to smell the roses make peace with his loved ones and so on." ” in which Ms. Bruni-Tedeschi played half of a divorcing couple — “Time to Leave” subordinates narrative to mood. Since the end of the story is never in doubt the only surprises lie in the particulars of Romain’s behavior and the nuances of sorrow determination and doubt that pass over Mr. Poupaud’s face." Jeanne Moreau (Laura) Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi (Jany) Daniel Duval (the Father) Marie Rivière (the Mother) and Christian Sengewald (Sasha)." throughout that Romain is fundamentally alone a state he seems to find both terrifying and calming. Occasionally in memory and in fantasy he comes face to face with his childhood self encounters that make him appear a stranger to himself rather than providing any kind of resolution or understanding.  “Time to Leave ” in the end explains very little choosing instead to emphasize the essential paradox that an individual’s life is never complete and always over too soon." with English subtitles) and directed by François Ozon; director of photography Jeanne Lapoirie; edited by Monica Coleman; music by Valentin Slivestrov; produced by Olivier Delbosc and Marc Missonnier; released by Strand Releasing. Running time: 85 minutes. This film is not rated." ” Mr. Ozon’s new film tries to pierce the membrane that separates the main character’s inner world from the people and objects that surround him again by making deft allusions to a familiar genre in this case melodrama." 
8154
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14mini.html
but it can’t account for why reliable performers like Jeff Goldblum Carrie-Anne Moss and Luke Wilson also went along for such a dead-end ride. Written by Nick Guthe making an inauspicious debut as a director this strenuously satiric neo-noir centers on yet another poor little rich girl from Los Angeles (county not city) who tends to her festering inner wounds by becoming one of the region’s children of the damned." almost too bad to be true but because it lacks the demented conviction of real camp the glint of madness that keeps a bauble like “Valley of the Dolls” afloat it soon loses its cheap-thrills appeal. The actors do their best to keep us awake though it’s clear from the performances which veer between the oversized (Ms. Moss) and the underbaked (Mr. Wilson) that Mr. Guthe didn’t offer any useful guidance. This doesn’t pose a problem for a pro like Mr. Baldwin but it’s bad news for an actress as untested as Ms. Reed who for all her pretty and poisonous pouting holds neither the screen nor our interest even with the camera nosing up her skirt." murder drugs booze and conspicuous consumption." Nikki Reed (Mini) Luke Wilson (Garson) Carrie-Anne Moss (Diane) Rick Fox (Fabrizio) Svetlana Metkina (Jelena) and Jeff Goldblum (Mike Rudell)." by contrast spins a lethal web with thread borrowed from film noir and recycled through the trash-television compactor. Accompanied by an on-again off-again voice-over that is more “Desperate Housewives” than “Double Indemnity ” she embarks on her voyage to hell at an escort agency where her first client surprise turns out to be dear old Stepdad  (Mr. Baldwin). As Mom (Ms. Moss) rehearses scenes from “Valley of the Dolls ” washing fistfuls of pills down with quarts of vodka Mini sinks her teeth and French tips in deeper going from naughty to worse as the film goes from implausible to risible." Daniel Stoloff; edited by Michael Ruscio and Alan Cody; music by Cato; production designer Linda Burton; produced by Kevin Spacey Dana Brunetti Edward Bass and Evan Astrowsky; released by First Independent Pictures. Running time: 91 minutes." 
8155
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14litt.html
Calvin the thief on the lam stashes it with a pair of unsuspecting yuppies (Kerry Washington and Shawn Wayans). The plot revolves around his attempts to retrieve it by masquerading as a freakish orphan left on their doorstep while mostly serving as a pretext for the crotch-level protagonist to abuse men’s testicles and sexually molest women." Shawn Wayans and Marlon Wayans; director of photography Steven Bernstein; edited by Nick Moore and Mike Jackson; music by Teddy Castellucci; production designer Leslie Dilley; produced by Keenen Ivory Wayans Marlon Wayans Shawn Wayans Rick Alvarez and Lee R. Mayes; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 90 minutes." and one that nicely summarizes what’s in store for the ticket holder has a dog empty its bladder all over Marlon Wayans’s face." Shawn Wayans (Darryl) Kerry Washington (Vanessa) John Witherspoon (Pops) Tracy Morgan (Percy) Lochlyn Munro (Greg) Chazz Palminteri (Walken) Gabe Pimental and Linden Porco (Calvin body) and Molly Shannon (Soccer Mom) ." ” but it’s the people behind the camera — the guys who brought you “White Chicks ” as the trailer hideously forebodes — who are responsible for the depressing infantilism." foulmouthed and covered in excrement." “Little Man” operates as a vulgar burlesque on the crisis of African-American manhood particularly the relationships or lack thereof between fathers and sons. Not that the Wayans brothers are conscious of anything more than the fortune to be had from defecation set pieces and gay-panic jokes." 
8156
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14groo.html
Edward Burns knows that an intimate knowledge of the old neighborhood can’t be acquired from a crash course in local customs; you have to have grown up there. In “The Groomsmen ” his latest of several trips back to an Irish-American enclave on the outskirts of New York (in this case City Island in the Bronx) he paints a scathing portrait of raucous high school buddies clutching at their rock ’n’ roll glory days as they push 35." Mr. Burns knows his characters’ every tic. You can almost smell the cooking odors buried in the couches of the modest middle-class homes with basketball hoops in the driveways. But in “The Groomsmen ” Mr. Burns as he has since “The Brothers McMullen” in 1995 is unable (or perhaps afraid) to contrive a story to match his attunement to place and personality. You tolerate the false sentimentality and his characters’ one-dimensional troubles the way you tolerate the conventions of a sitcom." whose sudden case of premarriage jitters feels cooked up for dramatic effect. The biggest hole in a movie that falls sadly short of being another “Diner” or “Trees Lounge” is Mr. Burns’s failure to make his alter-ego character anything other than the best-looking and most affluent member of the pack standing there and discreetly gloating." and the blasé reactions to his confession ring false. Mike whom T. C. remembers as the group’s relentless gay baiter seems strangely unfazed." the most contented of the five is married with two young sons and owns the neighborhood bar. He embodies the idea bruited about of what it means to be a male adult in this hidebound culture." John Leguizamo (T. C.) Matthew Lillard (Dez) Donal Logue (Jimbo) Jay Mohr (Cousin Mike) and Brittany Murphy (Sue)." a self-supporting writer and Sue (Brittany Murphy) his 10-months-pregnant girlfriend. Paulie’s miserable envious older brother Jimbo (Donal Logue) who runs a small struggling business loudly advises him not to go through with the wedding. Mr. Logue offers an unsettling portrait of a repressed uncommunicative alcoholic whose childless marriage is beginning to unravel." ” just when it seems as if he might have pulled off an American “I Vitelloni ” his X-ray vision glazes over and he resolves the anxiety and despair hanging over the reunion with tearful hugs and phony reassurances." William Rexer II; edited by Jamie Kirkpatrick; music by Robert Gary and P. T. Walkley; production designer Dina Goldman; produced by Mr. Burns Philippe Martinez Aaron Lubin and Margot Bridger; released by Bauer Martinez Entertainment. Running time: 93 minutes." the group cutup who still lives with (and works for) his father. The most infantile and nostalgic of the five Mike is a menace who keeps hounding his ex- girlfriend Jen (Jessica Capshaw) to take him back until her younger brother steps in. When T. C. (John Leguizamo) the lead singer of their high school rock band returns for the wedding after a mysterious eight-year absence Mike is still so steamed at him for having stolen his precious Tom Seaver baseball card that they immediately get into a shoving match." dropping the names of 1980’s rock bands and making ragged music together in a garage the movie evokes the creepy mixture of comfort and suffocation that a reunion of the old gang can produce.  What gives Mr. Burns’s movies their spark is his gut-level empathy for these people most of whom he understands deeply and relies on for inspiration." 
8157
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14frag.html
Mr. Haneke has emerged as an important force in world cinema in the last decade principally on the strength of powerful provocations like “Code Unknown ” “The Piano Teacher” and “Caché.” These later rather more accessible films are very much of an intellectual piece with his earlier work but Mr. Haneke has in recent years mellowed his tone and adapted a more classical approach to narrative adding French money and stars along the way. (Chance probably has nothing to do with these developments.) He’s still puzzling over the important questions  —  how do we live and why  —  but his outrage no longer feels quite as punitive perhaps because he has come to realize that his wagging finger is not an arrow but a pendulum." the film follows a handful of seemingly unrelated characters all of whom — perhaps by chance perhaps by divine intervention though mostly through artistic contrivance — have the grave misfortune to be in an Austrian bank when a 19-year-old student starts randomly if purposefully unloading his revolver.  The film which was never released in America opens this week at Anthology Film Archives as part of a retrospective dedicated to Mr. Haneke one of the great if occasionally more maddening voices in contemporary cinema." which began with his first feature “The Seventh Continent” (1989) and continued with one of his most controversial works “Benny’s Video” (1992). Briefly put “71 Fragments” is like other Haneke films a moral and philosophical meditation on the banality of evil and our nominal complicity inside the movie theater and out in a world in which a television news report on Michael Jackson is squeezed between horrors from Bosnia and Somalia. For Mr. Haneke the point seems less that evil is commonplace than that we don’t engage with it as thinking actively moral beings. We slurp our soup while Sarajevo burns on the boob tube." Lukas Miko (Max) Otto Grünmandl (Tomek) Anne Bennent (Inge Brunner) Udo Samel (Paul Brunner) and Branko Samarovski (Hans)." ” the former Yugoslavia smolders between snippets of jet-black film and scenes from everyday Viennese life. In one home a woman and man struggle with their newborn; elsewhere a childless couple struggle with a new foster daughter. An old man visits his daughter a teller in a bank only to be coolly rebuffed as if he were just another bothersome customer. A homeless Romanian boy eats garbage then watches a woman play ball in a park with children and a dog that looks considerably better fed (and loved) than he does. For those who miss the point: a young man mechanically hits Ping-Pong balls spitting out of a machine again and again testing his will or maybe his sanity as well as the viewer’s patience." with English subtitles) and directed by Michael Haneke; director of photography Christian Berger; edited by Marie Homolkova; production designer Christoph Kanter; produced by Veit Heiduschka and Willi Segler; released by Kino International. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 95 minutes. This film is not rated." 
8158
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14edmo.html
Julia Stiles (Glenna) Joe Mantegna (Man) Rebecca Pidgeon (Wife) Bai Ling (Girl) Lionel Mark Smith (Pimp) Mena Suvari (Whore) and Denise Richards (B-Girl)." the movie is no scam. On the contrary it suggests a scheme by Mr. Mamet to trick himself into confronting his cowering inner wimp and dragging this poor sniveling creature into the spotlight for a public exorcism. You may love “Edmond” or hate it but you will never forget it." gold-toothed pimp who promises to take him to a hooker tries to hold him up. Brandishing a knife newly purchased after he pawned his wedding ring he experiences the delirious liberation of living in the moment for the first time in his life and goes on a manic jag. Unable to keep his mouth shut babbling excitedly to strangers he goes home with a 23-year-old waitress and aspiring actress (Julia Stiles) and after sex harangues her with his revelations. When she freaks out he goes homicidally berserk." Stuart Gordon is a Mamet aficionado who produced and directed the original 1974 Chicago production of “Sexual Perversity in Chicago.” In 1985 he directed the cult film “Re-Animator ” adapted from an H. P. Lovecraft horror story. Mr. Gordon serves “Edmond” raw without padding or any attempt to open it up in the ways that movies of plays often do." which was greeted none too warmly when it first assaulted Off Broadway audiences in 1982. Matching his work in “Fargo” and “Boogie Nights ” Mr. Macy a master at playing sticks of human dynamite in mild-mannered camouflage gives the nerviest screen performance of his career." ” adapted by Mr. Mamet still wields a verbal tire iron. Its taunting insistence that everyone is racist voiced in abrasive staccato Mamet-speak leaves you feeling battered and vaguely guilty. In the early 1980’s  its epithets aimed at women gays and especially blacks sounded like the playwright’s spit-in-your-face response to a climate of rigid political correctness which has since softened. But even now  they hurt." pimps and streetwalkers in which Edmond’s demons come out to play has been largely cleaned up since 1982. Set in New York but filmed in Los Angeles the movie could take place in the tenderloin of any American city at any time over the last several decades." “You are not where you belong.” Her words unlock his pent-up desperation and arriving home he bluntly informs his wife (Rebecca Pidgeon) that she no longer interests him sexually or spiritually turns his back and walks out on their marriage." based on his play; director of photography Denis Maloney; edited by Andy Horvitch; music by Bobby Johnston; production designer Alan E. Muraoka; produced by Chris Hanley Molly Hassell Duffy Hecht Mr. Gordon Roger Kass Mary McCann and Kevin Ragsdale; released by First Independent Pictures.  Running time: 76 minutes." where he confides his frustrations to a stranger (Joe Mantegna) who convinces him that what he needs is sex. He visits a strip club a peep show and a massage parlor but is too stingy to play by the rules and either leaves in a huff or is bodily ousted. By the time he is swindled in a game of three-card monte Edmond has become a cartoon: the squarest most naïve city slicker ever to affect a gloss of urbanity. When the card sharks pull him into an alley beat him up and steal his money you share their contempt." the movie’s hard syncopated Mamet-speak couldn’t be less similar to Genet’s flowery pornography. Mr. Mamet never surrenders the armor of his macho language." profanity extreme violence and racial invective that may offend." ” William H. Macy is perfectly cast as a prim Manhattan businessman who heeds his inner demons and plummets into free fall. In one fateful night Edmond Burke sheds his pinstripe respectability and turns into a jailhouse punk dragged naked and shackled through a prison cellblock to a chorus of hoots and jeers." there is a quality of adolescent nose-thumbing as though it all might be a cruel practical joke designed solely to make us squirm. The film’s  Marquis de Sade-worthy notion of fear masking desire echoes the sly observation made by a con artist (played by Mr. Mantegna) to a psychiatrist (Lindsay Crouse) in the 1987 Mamet film “House of Games”: that she wants someone to take her “into a new thing.” For Edmond what’s new is personal transcendence through murder degradation and disgrace." with its incendiary language and its merciless portrait of a 47-year-old nebbish who embraces his own worst nightmares of racial and sexual subjugation is really a surreal spiritual fable that riffs on a notion voiced by Edmond that every fear hides a wish. Mr. Mamet shows no interest in offering a tidy psychological explanation for Edmond’s behavior. Hurled at you like a knife the movie is as reasonable as a panic attack." 
8159
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/14/movies/14dupr.html
a cool buzz and I’m fine ” Spicoli explains in “Fast Times.” Dupree doesn’t say anything nearly as memorable (the writer is Michael Le Sieur earning his first big-screen credit) though he embodies a similar hang-10 vibe. The film actually opens in Hawaii with a blowout wedding paid for by Molly’s creepily overprotective father whom Michael Douglas tries and fails to make funny. Soon after Dupree moves in with the newlyweds and proceeds to stink up the bathroom among other offenses. More entertainingly he woos a lady friend by serving up Tone Loc’s ridiculous hit “Funky Cold Medina” with a large helping of butter an amusing bit that like most of the setups is soon lost amid too much choreographed mayhem." Mr. Vaughn’s partner in booty call from “Wedding Crashers ” the smooth operator with the zigzag nose who’s looking to score again this week with a trifle called “You Me and Dupree”? This time Mr. Wilson’s partner in bad-boy crime is Matt Dillon providing yeoman straight-man support as Dupree’s best friend Carl whose new marriage to Molly (Kate Hudson) puts a kink in the men’s friendship. Will Carl and Dupree remain tight? Will Carl and Molly do the same after Dupree moves in and almost burns down their house? Will it all end happily after the poop jokes pratfalls and modest disturbances? Are you kidding? Will you laugh anyway? Possibly. Loudly? Not so much." ”  not least that there is no filmmaking to speak of just a progression of competent-looking scenes in which the actors appear to have successfully hit their marks. The  directors the brothers Anthony and Joe Russo have made a few other features including “Welcome to Collinwood ” an unnecessary redo of “Big Deal on Madonna Street” that nonetheless looked like someone was paying attention to the lighting and how objects and bodies fit in the frame which isn’t the case here. That said they do manage to shoot Ms. Hudson most attractively in a fantasy sequence that finds her promenading in a bikini thus fulfilling her primary function in the film as a decorative accessory." Mr. Wilson has in recent years become something of an unexpected if modest star. Although he has taken on serious roles — a serial killer in one film a downed fly boy in another — he often plays Zen masters and slackers with more than a passing resemblance to Spicoli the stoner-surfer played by Sean Penn in “Fast Times at Ridgemont High.” The shocks of blond and the broken beaks are the obvious points of comparison but there’s something of Spicoli the eternal teenager in Mr. Wilson’s characterizations too. Now 37 he has found success splashing in the shallow end of the pool alongside Vince Ben Will Jack and the other boy-men of modern Hollywood comedy." Charles Minsky; edited by Peter B. Ellis and Debra Neil-Fisher; music by Rolfe Kent; production designer Barry Robison; produced by Owen Wilson Scott Stuber and Mary Parent; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 108 minutes." “You Me and Dupree” remains a limp attempt to wed a romantic comedy to a buddy comedy largely because the filmmakers see women as visitors from another planet which is more or less what they now are in Hollywood. Not surprisingly as is often the case with comedies like this the important love in the film — the one that dares not speak its name but compels the guys to toss  around the word “homo” so  no one gets the wrong idea — isn’t between a man and woman but two male friends. Considering that Molly comes off as such a killjoy clucking and scolding and nagging like mom you understand why Carl and Dupree might want to sneak off — so do we." Kate Hudson (Molly) Matt Dillon (Carl) Seth Rogen (Neil) Amanda Detmer (Annie) and Michael Douglas (Mr. Thompson)." serving as a virtual playpen for legions of slobbering big babies for whom Peter Pan isn’t a syndrome but a way of life. Where once Lou Costello’s roly-poly cheeks shuddered as violently as a milk-starved newborn in “Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man ” Vince Vaughn’s jowls now tremble excitedly in “Wedding Crashers.” The difference being of course that while Costello  had only Abbott Mr. Vaughn conquers vixens and virgins alike with his signature mix of alpha-male braggadocio and thumb-sucker hunger." ME AND DUPREE" Me and Dupree” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has mild adult language and sexual innuendo." ” “Rushmore ” “The Royal Tenenbaums” — as well as one of his most important on-camera collaborators. Mr.  Wilson’s brother the actor Luke Wilson wore his heart on his hospital togs in “The Royal Tenenbaums ” and eventually secured both the beautiful girl and a melancholically happy ending. But as crucial to the film’s emotional and psychological texture was Owen Wilson’s turn as a drug-addled writer of purple-sage prose fated to unwittingly stick pins in his own pomposity. Mr. Anderson was clearly the artistic genius in residence but it was Owen Wilson who helped make sure the air they breathed never became too rarefied." 
8160
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/13/movies/13sons.html
a leading Brazilian country music duo. The two men brothers and Francisco Camargo’s sons started out a very long way from stardom and though their father was not the first to pressure his children into becoming entertainers few have had so far to go and  such daunting tragedy to overcome." but it casts a sweet spell nonetheless." with English subtitles) by Patrícia Andrade and Carolina Kotscho; directors of photography André Horta and Paulo Souza; edited by Vicente Kubrusly; music by Caetano Velosa and Zezé di Camargo; art director Kiti Duarte; produced by Luciano Camargo Leonardo Monteiro de Barros Luiz Noronha Pedro Buarque de Hollanda Pedro Guimarães Rommel Marques Emanoel Camargo and Mr. Silveira; released by Sony Pictures Releasing International. Part of the “Premiere Brazil!” series presented by the Museum of Modern Art at the museum’s Roy and Niuta Titus Theater. Running time: 119 minutes. This film is not rated." respectively the Jackson 5 and the Beach Boys. But they had nothing on Mr. Camargo whose determination is both the most unnerving and the most touching thing about “Two Sons of Francisco ” a Brazilian film that is being shown beginning today at the Museum of Modern Art’s “Premiere Brazil!”  film festival." a huge hit in Brazil feels most genuine when treating the family’s early years. The young father  sees the prize but isn’t sophisticated enough to steer a path to it. In one amusing scene he takes Zezé (nicely played as a boy by Dablio Moreira) and a brother to play on a radio show not realizing that the song they are singing would get everyone locked up. (One lyric goes “Long live the armed forces and their tyranny.”)" though he recognizes his limitations and lets the two youngsters go off with a promoter. They find success but also tragedy; it will be years before Zezé and another brother Welson (taking the name Luciano) try again. The film becomes less captivating in these later years but the director Breno Silveira throws in a nice touch at the end showing clips of the real singers and their father." in central Brazil with Zezé (whose given name is Mirosmar) still in the womb and Francisco (Ângelo Antônio) a tenant farmer hooking up a primitive radio. Francisco decides that his son will escape poverty and that music will be the way he does it." Dira Paes (Helena) Márcio Kieling and Dablio Moreira (Mirosmar a k a Zezé di Camargo) and Thiago Mendonça (Welson a k a Luciano)." 
8161
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/12/movies/12oliv.html
Hani Amer —  along with his wife Monira and their six surviving children —  literally lives surrounded by the wall. A military road a checkpoint and electrified fences separate the family home from the fields of oranges olives and flowers they used to sell in Masha’s now abandoned garden markets. Each day Hani and the children patiently wait for soldiers to unlock the gate and allow them to go to work and school. Sometimes they wait a very long time." with English subtitles; director of photography Daoud Sarhandi; edited and produced by Mr. Sarhandi; released by Arab Film Distribution. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 97 minutes. This film is not rated." the Mexican director Carolina Rivas and her cinematographer Daoud Sarhandi communicate with languid sun-dappled images of work-worn fingers and freshly picked fruit. (The film’s rhythms are so soothing that the sound of a stone crashing through glass has the impact and terror of a gunshot.)" Ms. Rivas and Mr. Sarhandi frame everything with an artistry that belies the difficulty of their working conditions creating a film as unhurried and dignified as the Amer family itself." “The Color of Olives” may be the most peaceful documentary ever to arrive from a war zone. Filmed about 15 miles from Tel Aviv in Masha a Palestinian village disrupted by the wall Israel is building on the West Bank the movie observes an ordinary Palestinian family living under extraordinary conditions." 
8162
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/12/movies/12cada.html
refusing them the honor of being cast as larger-than-life movie protagonists once again. The leaders of the Sicilian Mafia and their henchmen tend to be shown either as corpses or prisoners sprawled on blood-stained sidewalks or crowded into cages in a courtroom in Palermo the Sicilian capital. The film’s designated heroes are the men who at great risk and against long odds put them in those cages: in particular two brave Palermo prosecutors Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino who were murdered in separate bombings in 1992. Before their deaths Mr. Falcone and Mr. Borsellino (whose names now grace the Palermo airport) helped to bring about the convictions of hundreds of Mafia soldiers and bosses in the unprecedented “maxi-trial” of the mid-1980’s." more reporter than historian does not stray too far beyond the immediate parameters of his main story but the strongest criticism to be made of this film is also the highest praise: you wish there were more of it. This is not only because the details are fascinating in their own right but also because this quintessentially Italian tale is more broadly a case study in the difficulties involved in maintaining an independent and secure legal system." emphasizing its dysfunctional relationship with the postwar Italian state rather than its older roots in Sicilian culture. This may be part of their film’s corrective intention: their Mafia is not the colorful violent flowering of ancient Mediterranean peasant customs but rather a thoroughly vicious organization bent on the subversion of democratic norms and the brutal elimination of anyone who dares to oppose its ambitions." “Excellent Cadavers ” a meticulous and angry new documentary offers an implicit critique of the lovable-goombah view of organized crime. It does this by examining in unflinching detail the effects of Mafia power on Sicilian society and on Italian political life in the 1980’s and early 90’s." and the characteristic Cosa Nostra mix of Old World ethnic sentimentality and cutthroat capitalism has proved irresistible to artists of the big and small screens. It may be that this indulgent even romantic mythology is a sign that organized crime has never posed a serious threat to the American social order providing instead a rich trove of tabloid headlines and hard-boiled metaphors." journalistic style by Marco Turco “Excellent Cadavers” is based on and to some extent updates Alexander Stille’s 1995 book of the same title. Mr. Stille one of the best English-language writers on 20th-century Italy serves as narrator and tour guide taking us to the scenes of crimes and explaining their causes and consequences. (He is frequently joined on camera by Letizia Battaglia a photojournalist and anti-Mafia activist who plays the role of survivor and passionate eyewitness.)" who are shown in old television interviews and news clips stand out for their honesty discipline and professionalism. They and some of their colleagues represent the possibility of a rational modern approach to law and civic life something that has not always flourished in Italy. Their attempts to fight the influence of the Mafia — and to curb violence that in the early 1980’s was claiming three lives a week in Palermo — were often obstructed by longstanding traditions of red tape and outright corruption. In the years after World War II the Sicilian crime syndicates were enlisted by the Christian Democratic party to suppress Communist influence on the island and generations of Mafia leaders had grown accustomed to the influence and impunity that this cozy relationship with the country’s rulers afforded them." with English subtitles) by Vania Del Borgo Alexander Stille and Mr. Turco based on the book by Mr. Stille; directors of photography Franco Lecca and Enzo Carpineta; edited by Luca Gazzolo; music by Andrea Pandolfo; produced by Ms. Del Borgo; released by First Run/Icarus Films. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 92 minutes. This film is not rated." and a belated cleansing of the political system. But then the rise of Silvio Berlusconi who became prime minister in 2001 led to the systematic disempowering of the judiciary system and the repeal of legal instruments (like the Italian witness protection program) that Mr. Falcone and Mr. Borsellino had fought for. The film which was completed before Mr. Berlusconi’s recent defeat in a bid for re-election ends on a pessimistic note with a reminder that the romance between criminals and politicians may have cooled but has not ended." 
8163
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/07/movies/07sout.html
I'm not really sure anymore " declares Ellen (Charlotte Rampling) the haughty brutally forthright queen bee in the gaggle of sex tourists frolicking through Laurent Cantet's devastating film "Heading South."""I'm crazy about love — sex and love I'm not really sure anymore " declares Ellen (Charlotte Rampling) the haughty brutally forthright queen bee in the gaggle of sex tourists frolicking through Laurent Cantet's devastating film "Heading South."""'m crazy about love — sex and love I'm not really sure anymore " declares Ellen (Charlotte Rampling) the haughty brutally forthright queen bee in the gaggle of sex tourists frol""m crazy about love — sex and love I'm not really sure anymore " declares Ellen (Charlotte Rampling) the haughty "" crazy about love — sex and love I'm not really su" " she continues in her best blasé manner. "I just didn't think it would happen so fast." A beautiful unmarried 55-year-old teacher of French literature at Wellesley Ellen has spent the last six summers vacationing at the Petite Anse a seaside Haitian hotel frequented by poor black boys eager to provide sex to middle-age female guests who lavish them with money and gifts. Ellen the resident philosopher among a group who picnic with their boyfriends on the beach is a bossy know-it-all who is not quite as hard-boiled as she would like to imagine.""I always told myself that when I'm old I'd pay young men to love me " she continues in her best blasé manner. "I just didn't think it would happen so fast." A beautiful unmarried 55-year-old teacher of French literature at Wellesley Ellen has spent the last six summers vacationing at the Petite Anse a seaside Haitian hotel frequented by poor black boys eager to provide sex to middle-age female guests who lavish them with money and gifts. Ellen the resident philosopher among a group who picnic with their boyfriends on the beach is a bossy know-it-all who is not quite as hard-boiled as she would like to imagine."" always told myself that when I'm old I'd pay young men to love me " she continues in her best blasé manner. "I just didn't think it would happen so fast." A beautiful unmarried 55-year-old teacher of French literature at Wellesley Ellen has spent the last six summers vacationing at the Petite Anse a seaside Haitian hotel frequented by poor black boys eager to provide sex to middle-age female guests who lavish them with money and gifts. Ellen the resident philosopher among a group who picnic with their boyfriends on the beach is a bossy know-""always told myself that when I'm old I'd pay young men to love me " she continues in her best blasé manner. "I just didn't think it would happen so fast." A beautiful unmarried 55-year-old teacher of French literature at Wellesley Ellen has spent the last six summers vacationing at the Petite Anse a seaside Haitian hotel frequented by poor black boys eager to provide sex to middle-age female guests who lavish them with money and gifts. Ellen the resident philosopher among a gr""lways told myself that when I'm old I'd pay young men to love me " she continues in her best blasé manner. "I just didn't think it would happen so fast." A beautiful unmarried 55-year-old teacher of French literature at Wellesley Ellen has spent the last six summers vacationing at the Petite Anse a seaside Haitian hotel frequented by poor black boys eager to provide sex to middle-age female guests who lavish the""ways told myself that when I'm old I'd pay young men to love me " she continues in her best blasé manner. "I just didn't think it would happen so fast." A beautiful unmarried 55-year-old teacher of French literature at Wellesley Ellen has spent the last six summers vacationing at the Petite Anse a seaside Haitian hotel frequented by poor black boy""ays told myself that when I'm old I'd pay young men to love me " she continues in her best blasé manner. "I just didn't think it would happen so fast." A beautiful unmarried 55-year-old teacher of French literature at Wellesley Ellen has spent the last six summers vacationing at the P""ys told myself that when I'm old I'd pay young men to love me " she continues in her best blasé manner. "I just didn't think it would happen so fast." A beautiful unmarried 55-year-old teacher of French literature at Welle""s told myself that when I'm old I'd pay young men to love me " she continues in her best blasé manner. "I just didn't think it would happen so fast." A beautifu"" told myself that when I'm old I'd pay young men to love me " she continues in her best blasé mann""told myself that when I'm old I'd pay" "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins the same company's white-collar management team and father and son find themselves on opposite sides of a picket line.""t first glance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins the same company's white-collar management team and father and son find themselves on opposite sides "" first glance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins the same company's white-collar management team and father and son find themselves on""first glance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins the same company's white-collar management team and father and son fin""irst glance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins the same company's white-collar management team and fath""rst glance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins the same company's white-collar management t""st glance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins the same company's white-collar ""t glance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins the same company's wh"" glance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins the same co""glance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker joins th""lance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line worker ""ance "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly-line ""nce "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an assembly""ce "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an ass""e "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of an"" "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son of"" "Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son """Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son""Heading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart when the son""eading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family is torn apart""ading South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-collar family i""ding South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French blue-coll""ing South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources " a French""ng South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Resources """g South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Human Res"" South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. In "Hu""South" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern society. ""outh" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern soci""uth" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in modern ""th" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in mode""h" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in mo""" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in m"" seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's incisive examination of money and class in m""seems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in recent years. But it continues Mr. Cantet's""eems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of the more critically acclaimed French films in""ems to be a departure for the director of "Human Resources" and "Time Out " two of th""ms to be a departure for the director of """" while drifting around in his car and living on money borrowed from friends that he pretends to invest. In "Heading South " money also rules. The romantic spell that Legba exerts over Ellen and Brenda is bought and paid for.""he desperate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has landed even better work while drifting around in his car and living on money borrowed from friends that he pretends to invest. In "Heading South " money also rules. The romantic spell that Legba exerts over Ellen and B""e desperate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has landed even better work while drifting around in his car and living on money borrowed from friends that he pretends to invest. In "Heading South " money also rules. The romantic spell that L"" desperate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has landed even better work while drifting around in his car and living on money borrowed from friends that he pretends to invest. In "Heading South " money also rules""desperate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has landed even better work while drifting around in his car and living on money borrowed from friends that he pretends to invest. In "Headin""esperate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has landed even better work while drifting around in his car and living on money borrowed from friends that he prete""sperate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has landed even better work while drifting around in his car and living on money borrowed fr""perate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has landed even better work while drifting around in his car and livi""erate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has landed even better work while drifting arou""rate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has landed even better work""ate protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces his family he has lan""te protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depends and convinces hi""e protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his self-esteem depend"" protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying job on which his s""protagonist of "Time Out" loses the high-paying jo""rotagonist of "Time Out" loses the""otagonist of "Time ""tagon" the only guys who are interested are natural born losers or husbands whose wives are cheating on them " Ellen tartly observes of the mating game as it applies to single women of a certain age.""If you're over 40 and not as dumb as a fashion model the only guys who are interested are natural born losers or husbands whose wives are cheating on them " Ellen tartly observes of the mating game as it applies to single women of a certain age.""f you're over 40 and not as dumb as a fashion model the only guys who are interested are" the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and youth and how easy it is to confuse erotic rapture with love.""s "Heading South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and youth and how easy it is to confuse erotic rapture with lo"" "Heading South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and youth and how easy it is to confuse erotic rapture with """Heading South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and youth and how easy it is to confuse erotic rapture with""Heading South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and youth and how easy it is to confuse erotic rapture with""eading South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and youth and how easy it is to confuse erotic""ading South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and youth and how easy it is to co""ding South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and youth and how easy ""ing South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and youth and""ng South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire age and y""g South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of desire a"" South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed of de""South" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever filmed""outh" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ever f""uth" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations ev""th" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinations""h" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinatio""" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinati"" narrows its focus to concentrate on Ellen; her favorite young lover the handsome sly 18-year-old Legba (Ménothy Cesar); and two of the women in her circle it becomes one of the most truthful examinati" in which Albert waiting to pick up a tourist at the airport is approached by a Haitian woman who points to her beautiful 15-year-old daughter and pleads with him to take her because "being beautiful and poor in this country she doesn't stand a chance; they won't think twice of killing me to grab her."""ow perilous life is for ordinary Haitians under Mr. Duvalier is suggested in the movie's opening scene in which Albert " there is a local saying that those who grow too tall in Haiti are cut down; the exceptions of course are tourists." Brenda (Karen Young) and Sue (Louise Portal). Brenda 48 is a high-strung Valium-popping woman from Savannah Ga.; she is returning to the resort three years after she visited with her now-ex-husband and had sex with the 15-year-old Legba who gave her her first orgasm. She has been obsessed with him ever since. Sue a levelheaded good-hearted French Canadian who runs a warehouse in Montreal has a Haitian boyfriend she adores but she knows full well that in any other place the relationship would be laughable." discreet headwaiter Albert (Lys Ambroise). In a film constructed around four shattering monologues addressed to the camera Albert's is the only Haitian voice to speak from the heart and what he says is chilling. Descended from a family of patriots who fought the Americans in the 1915 occupation he harbors an implacable loathing of the white visitors. His grandfather he says believed "the white man was an animal." Albert adds "If he knew I was a waiter for Americans he would die of shame." Today he declares whites wield an even more dangerous weapon than cannons —  their dollars: "Everything they touch turns to garbage."""bserving the tourism with profound distaste is the hotel's courtly discreet headwaiter Albert (Lys Ambroise). In a film constructed around four shattering monologues addressed to the camera Albert's is the only Haitian voice to speak from the" with English subtitles) by Mr. Cantet and Robin Campillo based on short stories by Dany Laferrière; director of photography Pierre Milon; edited by Mr. Campillo; art direction Franckie Diago; produced by Caroline Benjo Carole Scotta and Simon Arnal; released by Shadow Distribution. Running time: 105 minutes. This film is not rated." when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurrents beneath a seemingly benign example of sexual tourism.""ut "Heading South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurrents beneath a seemingly benign example of sexual tour""t "Heading South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurrents beneath a seemingly benign example of sexual t"" "Heading South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurrents beneath a seemingly benign example of sexual"""Heading South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurrents beneath a seemingly benign example of sexua""Heading South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurrents beneath a seemingly benign example of sexua""eading South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurrents beneath a seemingly benign exa""ading South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurrents beneath a seemingl""ding South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurrents beneath""ing South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social undercurren""ng South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker social un""g South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the darker s"" South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates the d""South" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemplates""outh" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film contemp""uth" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film con""th" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed film ""h" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed fil""" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed fi"" is much more than a dispassionate examination of middle-age desire. Adapted from three short stories by Dany Laferrière and set in the late 1970's when Haiti was ruled by  Jean-Claude Duvalier (nicknamed Baby Doc) and a cadre of thugs this politically pointed fi" whose relationships with their young lovers are more tender and nourishing than overtly crass. For all its political acuity this great film recognizes and respects the complexity of its memorable fully realized characters." Karen Young (Brenda) Louise Portal (Sue) Ménothy Cesar (Legba) Lys Ambroise (Albert) and Jackenson Pierre Olmo Diaz (Eddy)." English and a smattering of Creole by Mr. Cantet and Robin Campillo "Heading South" is a beautifully written seamlessly directed film with award-worthy performances by Ms. Rampling and Ms. Young. As Ellen and Brenda compete for Legba's love both imagine that they play a larger role in his life than they actually do. The little we see of Legba away from the resort suggests a complicated past. When a gunman goes after him the women imagine they are the immediate cause of his troubles. They are but only to the extent that Legba conspicuously stands out in the flashy clothes Brenda buys him. As much as Ellen and Brenda think they understand him and the state of fear that grips Haiti they are ultimately clueless.""ith a screenplay in French English and a smattering of Creole by Mr. Cantet and Robin Campillo "Heading South" is a beautifully written seamlessly directed film with award-worthy performances by Ms. Rampling and Ms. Young. As Ellen and Brenda compete for Legba's love both imagine that they play a larger role in his life than they actually do. The little we see of Legba away from the resort suggests a complicated past. When a gunman goes after him the women imagine they are the immediate cause of his troubles. They are but only to the extent that Legba conspicuously stands out in the flashy clothes Brenda buys him. As much as Ellen and Bren""th a screenplay in French English and a smattering of Creole by Mr. Cantet and Robin Campillo "Heading South" is a beautifully written seamlessly directed film with award-worthy performances by Ms. Rampling and Ms. Young. As Ellen and Brenda compete for Legba's love both imagine that they play a larger role in his life than they actually do. The little we see of Legba away from the resort suggests a complicated past. When a gunman goes after him the women imagine they are the immediate cause of his troubles. They are but only to the extent tha""h a screenplay in French English and a smattering of Creole by Mr. Cantet and Robin Campillo "Heading South" is a beautifully written seamlessly directed film with award-worthy performances by Ms. Rampling and Ms. Young. As Ellen and Brenda compete for Legba's love both imagine that they play a larger role in his life than they actually do. The little we see of Legba away from the resort suggests a complicated past. When a gunman goes after him the "" a screenplay in French English and a smattering of Creole by Mr. Cantet and Robin Campillo "Heading South" is a beautifully written seamlessly directed film with award-worthy performances by Ms. Rampling and Ms. Young. As Ellen and Brenda compete for Legba's love both imagine that they play a larger role in his life than they actually do. The little we se""a screenplay in French English and a smattering of Creole by Mr. Cantet and Robin Campillo "Heading South" is a beautifully written seamlessly directed film with award-worthy performances by Ms. Rampling and Ms. Young. As Ellen and Brenda compete for Legba's love "" screenplay in French English and a smattering of Creole by Mr. Cantet and Robin Campillo "Heading South" is a beautifully written seamlessly directed film with award-wor""screenplay in French English and a smattering of Creole by Mr. Cantet and Robin" 
