http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18knig.html
Batman remains perhaps not surprisingly then a recessive almost elusive figure. Part of this has to do with the costume which has created complications for every actor who wears it. With his eyes dimmed and voice technologically obscured Mr. Bale who’s suited up from the start doesn’t have access to an actor’s most expressive tools. (There are only so many ways to eyeball an enemy.) Mr. Nolan having already told Batman’s origin story in the first film initially doesn’t appear motivated to advance the character. Yet by giving him rivals in love and war he has also shifted Batman’s demons from inside his head to the outside world." based on a story by Christopher Nolan and David S. Goyer; Batman character created by Bob Kane; Batman and other characters from the DC comic books; director of photography Wally Pfister; edited by Lee Smith; music by Hans Zimmer and James Newton Howard; production designer Nathan Crowley; produced by Charles Roven Emma Thomas and Christopher Nolan; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 32 minutes." truth justice and the American way don’t cut it anymore. That may not fully explain why the last Superman took a nose dive (“Superman Returns ” if not for long) but I think it helps get at why like other recent ambiguous American heroes both supermen and super-spies the new Batman soared. Talent played a considerable part in Mr. Nolan’s Bat restoration naturally as did his seriousness of purpose. He brought a gravitas to the superhero that wiped away the camp and kitsch that had shrouded Batman in cobwebs. It helped that Christian Bale a reluctant smiler whose sharply planed face looks as if it had been carved with a chisel slid into Bruce Wayne’s insouciance as easily as he did Batman’s suit." the Joker arrives in Gotham abruptly as if he’d been hiding up someone’s sleeve. He quickly seizes control of the city’s crime syndicate and Batman’s attention with no rhyme and less reason. Mr. Ledger his body tightly wound but limbs jangling all but disappears under the character’s white mask and red leer. Licking and chewing his sloppy smeared lips his tongue darting in and out of his mouth like a jittery animal he turns the Joker into a tease who taunts criminals (Eric Roberts’s bad guy among them) and the police (Gary Oldman’s good cop) giggling while he-he-he (ha-ha-ha) tries to burn the world down. He isn’t fighting for anything or anyone. He isn’t a terrorist just terrifying." “The Dark Knight” can feel closer to David Fincher’s “Zodiac” than Tim Burton’s playfully gothic “Batman ” which means it’s also closer to Bob Kane’s original comic and Frank Miller’s 1986 reinterpretation. That makes it heavy at times almost pop-Wagnerian but Mr. Ledger’s performance and the film’s visual beauty are transporting. (In Imax it’s even more operatic.) No matter how cynical you feel about Hollywood it is hard not to fall for a film that makes room for a shot of the Joker leaning out the window of a stolen police car and laughing into the wind the city’s colored lights gleaming behind him like jewels. He’s just a clown in black velvet but he’s also some kind of masterpiece." which is to be expected of a film with a large price tag (well north of $100 million) and major studio expectations (worldwide domination or bust). Instead like other filmmakers who’ve successfully reworked genre staples Mr. Nolan has found a way to make Batman relevant to his time — meaning to ours — investing him with shadows that remind you of the character’s troubled beginning but without lingering mustiness. That’s nothing new but what is surprising actually startling is that in “The Dark Knight ” which picks up the story after the first film ends Mr. Nolan has turned Batman (again played by the sturdy stoic Mr. Bale) into a villain’s sidekick." Michael Caine (Alfred) Heath Ledger (the Joker) Gary Oldman (James Gordon) Aaron Eckhart (Harvey Dent) Maggie Gyllenhaal (Rachel Dawes) and Morgan Freeman (Lucius Fox)." but it gives the story tension and interest beyond one man’s personal struggle. This is a darker Batman less obviously human more strangely other. When he perches over Gotham on the edge of a skyscraper roof he looks more like a gargoyle than a savior. There’s a touch of demon in his stealthy menace. During a crucial scene one of the film’s saner characters asserts that this isn’t a time for heroes the implication being that the moment belongs to villains and madmen. Which is why when Batman takes flight in this film his wings stretching across the sky like webbed hands it’s as if he were trying to possess the world as much as save it." but partly because he’s a showman. Even before the Joker goes wild the director lets loose with some comic horror that owes something to Michael Mann’s “Heat ” something to Cirque de Soleil and quickly sets a tense coiled mood that he sustains for two fast-moving hours of freakish mischief vigilante justice philosophical asides and the usual trinkets and toys before a final half-hour pileup of gunfire and explosions. This big-bang finish — which includes a topsy-turvy image that poignantly suggests the world has been turned on its axis for good — is sloppy at times visually incoherent yet touching. Mr. Nolan you learn likes to linger in the dark but he doesn’t want to live there." the city the Joker threatens looks like New York but it would be reductive to read the film too directly through the prism of 9/11 and its aftermath. You may flash on that day when a building collapses here in a cloud of dust or when firemen douse some flames but those resemblances belong more rightly to our memories than to what we see unfolding on screen. Like any number of small- and big-screen thrillers the film’s engagement with 9/11 is diffuse more a matter of inference and ideas (chaos fear death) than of direct assertion. Still that a spectacle like this even glances in that direction confirms  that American movies have entered a new era of ambivalence when it comes to their heroes — or maybe just superness." of course a demonic creation and three-ring circus of one wholly inhabited by Heath Ledger. Mr. Ledger died in January at age 28 from an accidental overdose after principal photography ended and his death might have cast a paralyzing pall over the film if the performance were not so alive. But his Joker is a creature of such ghastly life and the performance is so visceral creepy and insistently present that the characterization pulls you in almost at once. When the Joker enters one fray with a murderous flourish and that sawed-off smile his morbid grin a mirror of the Black Dahlia’s ear-to-ear grimace your nervous laughter will die in your throat." Christopher Nolan’s new Batman movie feels like a beginning and something of an end. Pitched at the divide between art and industry poetry and entertainment it goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind — including “Batman Begins ” Mr. Nolan’s 2005 pleasurably moody resurrection of the series — largely by embracing an ambivalence that at first glance might be mistaken for pessimism. But no work filled with such thrilling moments of pure cinema can be rightly branded pessimistic even a postheroic superhero movie like “The Dark Knight.”" Mr. Nolan working from a script he wrote with his brother Jonathan Nolan does make room for romance and tears and even an occasional (nonlethal) joke. There are several new characters notably Harvey Dent (a charismatic Aaron Eckhart) a crusading district attorney and Bruce Wayne’s rival for the affection of his longtime friend Rachel Dawes (Maggie Gyllenhaal a happy improvement over Katie Holmes). Like almost every other character in the film Batman and Bruce included Harvey and Rachel live and work in (literal) glass houses. The Gotham they inhabit is shinier and brighter than the antiqued dystopia of “Batman Begins”: theirs is the emblematic modern megalopolis (in truth a cleverly disguised Chicago) soulless anonymous a city of distorting and shattering mirrors." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18disf.html
” a funny awkward and often uncomfortable drama eager to confront the pain beneath the pounds." Lydia (Deidra Edwards) is irritated by the group’s prejudice. In defiance of its “change the world not ourselves” mandate she organizes a walking club; and when the rejectee Darcy (Staci Lawrence) offers to help the two embark on a relationship more thorny than therapeutic." Staci Lawrence (Darcy) and Ryan C. Benson (Bob)." Idit Dvir; edited by Mr. Gers and Gregory Plotkin; music by Kayla Schmah; production designer Tabitha Johnson; produced by David W. Higgins; released by Cinema Libre Studio. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." fine acting and emphasis on personal accountability “disFIGURED” recognizes societal norms of appearance but refuses to whine about them. When Lydia nervously asks Darcy what she thinks of Lydia’s body Darcy doesn’t hesitate. “I think it’s disgusting ” she says without apology and the exchange hangs in the air with shocking authenticity. In this weight-centric world truth trumps political correctness every time." the writer and director Glenn Gers balances explicitness — most startlingly during the film’s sole sex scene — with compassion. His greatest kindness however is to recognize that real friendship should be more than just a space for healing." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18chim.html
the name combined with the G rating might have parents thinking they should stay in the car while the kiddies go into the theater but that would be a mistake. It would among other things cause them to miss one of the better one-liners of the summer the capper in a string of chimp puns delivered by a title character. Waiting to read it here? You’ll wait a long time." and it is up to the space chimps to dethrone him. Kristin Chenoweth the Broadway fave is the voice of one of the ugliest cute characters in animation history a thing with a giant head." and the space agency hunts down Ham for the publicity-stunt value teaming him with Luna (Cheryl Hines) and Titan (Patrick Warburton the chimp pun maker who is a droll riot as always)." the smart-alecky grandson of one of the original chimps in space who has a job at a circus being fired out of a cannon. He doesn’t aspire to much more but events are conspiring to put him on a path to his true destiny: a space probe has been sucked into a wormhole and there are plans to send a crew of chimps after it." based on a story by Mr. DeMicco; music by Chris Bacon and Blue Man Group; produced by John H. Williams and Barry Sonnenfeld; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. This film is rated G." Cheryl Hines (Luna) Patrick Warburton (Titan) Jeff Daniels (Zartog) Kristin Chenoweth (Kilowatt) Stanley Tucci (the Senator) and Kenan Thompson (the Ringmaster)." “Space Chimps” proves that the old formula is still pretty effective when executed well. The old formula being a  child-friendly tale laced with deadpan asides for grown-ups and delivered by top-notch voice actors." Stanley Tucci leads the group of hapless humans who don’t realize how smart the space chimps are. The film’s writers Rob Moreland and Kirk DeMicco (who also directed) slyly nod to assorted space movies and clichés. And the music some of it by Blue Man Group keeps things rolling along." so here goes: “Space Chimps” is hilarious." the brave stepped into the rocket ” a narrator intones as the film begins. “And the brave were chimps.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18take.html
to some extent in the minds of its ill-fated characters. Subjective or not the movie is a bore and an eyesore. If there is anything the cinema needed less than another angst-ridden cross-cutting tragedy about crime fate memory and redemption it’s the kind  shot in an ugly monochromatic palette suggesting a world drained of emotions and filmmakers parched of imagination." “Take” stars Minnie Driver as Ana a working-class mom with a hyperactive child (Bobby Coleman) and Jeremy Renner as Saul a compulsive gambler at the end of his rope. We glean from an early jumble of images that foretells much brooding montage to come that their crossing of paths results in a terrible act of violence." compelled less by the psychological fissures of the characters than by a screenplay that wails with emotionalism but fails to generate any real feeling. Saul passes his final hours on death row in the company of a priest who drones clichés while Ana motors along a memory-strewn desert en route to his execution: two tortured souls fated for one last encounter. And one torturous drama put out of its misery." Tristan Whitman; edited by Andrew McAllister; music by Roger Neill; production designer Luke Freeborn; produced by Chet Thomas; released by Liberation Entertainment. At the Landmark Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." Jeremy Renner (Saul Gregor) Bobby Coleman (Jesse Nichols) Adam Rodriguez (Steven) and David Denman (Marty Nichols)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18pear.html
Mr. Fryar rescued discarded plants from the town nursery and painstakingly molded them into mind-boggling configurations. Neighbors doubted his sanity and nicknamed him Edward Scissorhands but this modest and supremely patient son of a sharecropper persisted with his fantastical sculptures. Nowadays his work draws thousands of visitors a year and he even has a day named after him:  quite a step up from his original goal to win Yard of the Month." J. Steven Anderson; edited by Greg Grzeszczak; music by Fred Story; released by Shadow Distribution. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 18 minutes. This film is rated G." S.C. — until you come upon the yard of Pearl Fryar. A three-acre dreamscape of abstract topiary designs Mr. Fryar’s yard is the town’s pride and its owner’s obsession." "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s talents (and from the female admirers who find his lithe 68-year-old body every bit as interesting as his foliage). Those white families who decades ago rejected him as a neighbor because “black people don’t keep up their yards” must be weeping into their seed catalogs.""ssembled without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s talents (and from the female admirers who find his lithe 68-year-old body every bit as interesting as his foliage). Those white families who decades ago rejected him as a neighbor because “black people don’t keep up their yards” must be""sembled without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s talents (and from the female admirers who find his lithe 68-year-old body every bit as interesting as his foliage). Those white families who decades ago rejected him as a neighbor because “black people d""embled without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s talents (and from the female admirers who find his lithe 68-year-old body every bit as interesting as his foliage). Those white families who decades ago rejected him as a ""mbled without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s talents (and from the female admirers who find his lithe 68-year-old body every bit as interesting as his foliage). Those white families who ""bled without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s talents (and from the female admirers who find his lithe 68-year-old body every bit as interesting as his foliag""led without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s talents (and from the female admirers who find his lithe 68-year-old body every bit""ed without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s talents (and from the female admirers who find his lithe""d without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s talents (and from the female "" without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual beneficiaries of Mr. Fryar’s tal""without frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financial and spiritual benefic""ithout frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative comments from the financi""thout frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things moving with appreciative co""hout frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Pierson keep things movin""out frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Galloway and Brent Piers""ut frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the directors Scott Gall""t frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s jazzy score the di"" frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided by Fred Story’s j""frills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist. Aided ""rills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black fol""ills or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unass""lls or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small Southern town ""ls or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait of a small S""s or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much a portrait "" or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" is as much ""or fuss "A Man Named Pearl" i""r fuss "A Man Named"" fuss "A M""fus" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18gang.html
“A Very British Gangster” plays less like a documentary than an E! exposé of lowlife skulduggery. Subtitled to ensure no wiseguy witticisms are overlooked the movie attaches itself to the family’s smirking openly gay boss Dominic between whose shaved dome and prosperous belly beats the heart of a monster. Though convicted of bank robbery assault and hijacking and charged with kidnap and torture this self-styled “social worker” (settling neighborhood disputes is a sideline) offers protection security and banking services to grateful locals." victims or rival thugs this slick parade of bad teeth and worse skin barely conceals its admiration for their owners. But in an entertainment culture committed to the glorification of gangsters few will conclude that characters like the Noonans are better ignored than immortalized." England the journalist Donal MacIntyre — the British  answer to Geraldo Rivera  — became a willing conduit for the outsize egos and self-serving confessions of its members." however has more colorful concerns. “There’s a hint of lavender about you ” he teases eyeing Dominic’s permanent posse of young hoodlums and attention to grooming.  The statement introduces the movie’s sole stab of tension as we ponder the likelihood of Mr. MacIntyre’s imminent demise." Mike Turnbull and Nick Manley; edited by Sally Hilton; produced by Sam Emmary Mr. MacIntyre and Lill Cranfield; released by Anywhere Road. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18door.html
of sorts arrives when Trevor under mysterious circumstances is booted from his job and blacklisted from the scene. Scarcely focused to begin with “The Doorman” now  follows  Trevor’s increasing desperation and flails about in its own dwindling reserve of ideas." the writer and director of “The Doorman ” is simply too distracted to hit the comedic bull’s-eye. Whatever the case his movie gets a chuckle or two but mostly will tickle insiders like the ones who pop up here playing themselves (the ubiquitous party photographer Patrick McMullan the hot-spot maven Amy Sacco)." ” a mockumentary about the people who run Manhattan nightlife has solid-gold satire at its cocaine-stained fingertips. The scene fairly satirizes itself: sycophants and fashion victims air kisses and ego trips ditzy Americans and dubious Europeans." a delusional doorman of ambiguous ethnicity (Latin? Italian?) and unequivocal idiocy as he works the velvet rope from Miami to the meatpacking district while expounding his shallow code of worthiness. Trevor has much to say about the “open sesame” properties of upscale footwear." Patryk Rebisz; music by Brazilian Girls and Kudu; produced by Mevlut Akkaya Brian Devine Jonathan Gray Mr. Price and Mr. Akoskin; released by Gigantic Releasing. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 16 minutes. This film is not rated." Matthew Mabe (Stanley) and Peter Bogdanovich Thom Filicia Denise Quinones Patrick McMullan and Amy Sacco (themselves)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18mamm.html
and I’m describing a train wreck. But it’s hard not to share the evident delight of most of the performers. Ms. Streep overdoes it yes but you can’t accuse her of condescending to the material any more than you can fault her for taking it too seriously." and she is not an actress capable of failure. There is a degree of fascination in watching an Oscar-winning Yale School of Drama  graduate mug and squirm shimmy and shriek and generally fill every moment with antic purposeless energy as if she were hogging the spotlight in an eighth-grade musical." by the way is part of the title and it’s by far the most understated thing about the movie.) You can have a perfectly nice time watching this spirited adaptation of the popular stage musical and once the hangover wears off acknowledge just how bad it is." though not for any lack of effort or talent. She has to work while the old timers are having fun and to carry the picture’s unconvincing flat-footed attempts at melodrama. Ms. Seyfried’s eyes are as blue as the Aegean and almost as wide and her natural vivacity makes her performance seem almost authentic but she’s not in a position to let go of her vanity and clown around." based on the original musical book by Ms. Johnson originally conceived by Judy Craymer based on the songs of Abba; director of photography Haris Zambarloukos; edited by Lesley Walker; music and lyrics by Benny Andersson and Bjorn Ulvaeus some songs with Stig Anderson; choreographer Anthony Van Laast; production designer Maria Djurkovic; produced by Ms. Craymer and Gary Goetzman; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." Pierce Brosnan (Sam) Colin Firth (Harry) Stellan Skarsgard (Bill) Julie Walters (Rosie) Dominic Cooper (Sky) Amanda Seyfried (Sophie) and Christine Baranski (Tanya)." messy musical if you’re the actual Meryl Streep.  If you have the desire (or the potential) to be the next Meryl Streep the stakes are higher and the risks more pronounced." who has proven her skill on “Big Love” and elsewhere is likely to emerge from “Mamma Mia!” unscathed. Really this movie is incapable of harming anyone except moviegoers with the good taste and bad manners to resist its relentless ridiculous charm." ” but that’s hardly a criticism. The story (by Catherine Johnson) is more or less an early Shakespeare comedy reimagined as an episode of “Hannah Montana.” The ingénue Sophie (Amanda Seyfried) is about to be married on the sun-drenched Greek island where she lives with her mother Donna (Ms. Streep). Sophie is the just-ripe fruit of a summer fling with the complicating factor that Donna had three flings during the summer in question and Sophie doesn’t know whether her dad is Sam (Pierce Brosnan) Bill (Stellan Skarsgard) or Harry (Colin Firth). But even though she knows them only as names in an old diary she manages to track them down and invite all three to her wedding. Lo and behold they all show up as do Tanya (Christine Baranski) and Rosie (Julie Walters) old pals of Donna’s from the crazy days of her rock ’n’ roll youth." exactly those crazy days were is a bit vague. A song lyric refers to the “time of the Flower Power.” (Surely you remember the Flower Power!) But Sophie sure doesn’t look 40. At one point Harry recalls the Johnny Rotten T-shirt he had back when he knew Donna which is 10 years closer to the mark but still about 10 years off. Never mind. Abba is timeless: “The history book up on my shelf/ is always repeating itself.”" I’m the first in line. Mamma Mia here I go again. Like me you may have spent the last 30 years struggling to get lines like those out of your head — and wondering what they were doing there in the first place — but you might as well have been trying to compost Styrofoam. Those shimmery layered arrangements those lyrics in a language uncannily like English those symmetrical Nordic voices — they all add up to something alarmingly permanent a marshmallow monument on the cultural landscape. When our species dies out leaving the planet to roaches and robots the insects will beat their little wings to the tune of “Waterloo” as Wall-E and Eve warble along." and also upstaged by Ms. Walters and especially by Ms. Baranski whose cougar-on-the-prowl rendition of “Does Your Mother Know” is the one genuinely show-stoppingly sexy sequence in a film that more often flails between forced cheekiness and unearned sentiment." ” Phyllida Lloyd seems have taken the unapologetic silliness of the project (which she directed onstage) as permission to be sloppy. Abba made some of the most highly polished tightly engineered pop junk ever. There is a kind of perfection in some of those hits that is undeniable even if — or maybe especially if — you can’t stand to hear them. But in matters of craft and technique “Mamma Mia!” proves to be remarkably shoddy a tangle of clumsy cuts mismatched shots bad lighting egregious overdubbing and scenes in which characters appear to have been haphazardly Photoshopped into the scenery." looking at your watch and defending yourself against this mindless hedonistic assault on coherence you are unlikely to survive until the end credits (which may by themselves kill you all over again). Surrender on the other hand is easy and painless. It’s Greece! It’s bellybuttons! It’s Meryl Streep! It’s Abba!" and that worrying about dignity is for newbies and amateurs. So Mr. Brosnan bellows his way through a couple of duets Mr. Skarsgard displays his tattooed buttocks and Mr. Firth consents to appear in a spiked dog collar." austere aesthetically correct drinks — single-malt Scotch green tea pomegranate juice whatever — may occasionally indulge in a frivolous cocktail bedecked with fruit and umbrellas and served in a bulbous sugar-rimmed glass. The next morning’s headache seems a small price to pay for the rush of cheap liquor and uninhibited conviviality. As long as you don’t operate heavy machinery or wake up in the wrong bed or operate heavy machinery in the wrong bed what’s the harm?" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/18/movies/18felo.html
and filmed at the New Mexico State Penitentiary near Santa Fe “Felon” is one of the most realistic prison films ever made. That’s not to say it is above exploiting the violence that runs through the place like an electric charge. The camera slavers over fight scenes in the prison yard where heavily tattooed beasts goaded by prison guards lunge at one another  like maddened bulls." ” the soft-core S&M soap opera on Home Box Office which pretended to offer an authentic portrayal of life behind bars. The high-security men’s prison in “Felon” is the real thing. Here is where Wade Porter (Stephen Dorff) a decent hardworking builder with his own construction crew lands after accidentally killing a man and discovers a world in which unimaginable brutality has free rein." Wade creeps downstairs surprises the burglar and chases him onto the street where he takes a swing and accidentally kills him. Laura dials 911. But when the police arrive Wade is arrested and charged with second-degree murder because the deadly assault took place outside his house." ” Lieutenant Jackson (Harold Perrineau who played the paraplegic prisoner Augustus Hill in “Oz”) is the prison’s self-appointed captain of the blood sports. Observed off duty he is a jocular community-spirited family man with few traces of the sadistic monster he becomes on the job; the disparity is so extreme it rings false." but once the theme of ethnic warfare is introduced the movie forgets about it. It would rather salivate over the pulping of flesh." ” placing bets on the combatants and often opening fire on them for sport. Eight corrections officers were indicted for staging the games but were eventually acquitted of all charges." Dana Gonzales; edited by Jonathan Chibnall; music by Gerhard Daum; production designer Vincent Reynaud; produced by Tucker Tooley and Dan Keston; released by Stage 6 Films. In Manhattan at the Landmark Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." to terror to despair to fury and finally to hope." Laura (Marisol Nichols) awaken to the sounds of an intruder in the modest Southern California home they share with their 3-year-old son Michael (Vincent Miller)." Los Angeles and San Francisco." corrections officers had shot and killed more inmates than at any other prison in the country." Val Kilmer (John Smith) Harold Perrineau (Lieutenant Jackson) Marisol Nichols (Laura Porter) Vincent Miller (Michael Porter) and Anne Archer (Maggie)." by which time you are so wrung out that the  contrived ending feels like an afterthought." he pleads involuntary manslaughter for a reduced sentence. But on his way to the state prison in Corcoran he is drawn into a fracas whose repercussions cause his sentence to be lengthened and lead to his incarceration in a high-security block housing the most dangerous prisoners. His cellmate John Smith (Val Kilmer) is serving a life sentence without parole after killing the two men who murdered his wife and daughter and all their family members thereby erasing the family’s bloodlines." Laura never fully realizes that his misadventures are not his fault. As their finances dwindle she sells the house and moves in with her mother (Anne Archer) who urges her to move on." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11days.html
he turns it down. When he approaches an old acquaintance to whom he lent a large sum of money years earlier the friend lies and insists he already paid it back." people who might fear a film that addresses their insecurities this bluntly. Of the few contemporary movies to take a hard look at the psychic cost of unemployment the best is Laurent Cantet’s “Time Out.” That melancholy 2001 film followed a downsized executive existing in a state of metaphysical self-deception who lies to his family about his lack of a job and persuades his friends to invest in a phantom enterprise. Because the situation in “Days and Clouds” is more mundane it is more threatening to contemplate." it appears job security isn’t what it used to be and corporate downsizing is plunging  affluent families into sudden financial tailspins." Elsa (Margherita Buy) an art restorer who has just earned an advanced degree that he keeps it from her until the morning after a lavish surprise birthday party he has arranged for her. Instead of going to work for the last two months Michele confesses he has been spending his days on his boat which he will have to sell along with their home. All they have left is about 21 000 euros (not quite $33 000)." where social mobility can be more fluid and marital roles less traditional." in their un-showy ways make their characters and their deeply lived-in relationship entirely believable. Elsa’s preferred work in which she peels away one painted surface to reveal another is a rich metaphor for the personal examination each must go through to discover if a fundamental bond exists. This sad very grown-up movie convinces you that one does." but he quits after his 20-year-old daughter Alice (Alba Rohrwacher) sees him making his rounds. He teams up with two low-level workers from his former company to move furniture and do painting and plastering. But as the weeks drag on he becomes too depressed to get out of bed. During a fight Elsa calls him a spineless amoeba and he leaves." noisy apartment Michele makes the rounds of headhunters and employment agencies while Elsa suspends her unpaid work restoring centuries-old frescoes to shuttle between jobs as telemarketer and secretary. The ease with which she finds work only exacerbates her husband’s humiliation." ” like Mr. Soldini’s 2000  film “Bread and Tulips ” observes a middle-aged couple in crisis. But this film —  unlike its forerunner which was set in Venice  — is unblinkingly realistic. Genoa with its narrow streets and quiet harbor has none of the hallmarks of a glamorous international destination." Antonio Albanese (Michele) Giuseppe Battiston (Vito) Alba Rohrwacher (Alice) Carla Signoris (Nadia) and Fabio Troiano (Riki)." it is increasingly difficult to regain your footing in the job market once you have lost it. The more prestigious your job the greater the likelihood your identity is wrapped up in it. Without your work who are you? Without his credentials and his income Michele’s self-esteem begins to collapse along with his marriage." the movie’s tight-lipped protagonist is a stolid businessman in Genoa whose partners one of whom is his oldest friend oust him from the company after 20 years. Business is business and when it clashes with friendship friendship goes by the wayside." with English subtitles) by Doriana Leondeff Francisco Piccolo Frederica Pontremoli and Mr. Soldini; director of photography Ramiro Civita; edited by Carlotta Cristiani; art director Paola Bizzari; produced by Lionello Cerri; released by Film Movement. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11ston.html
and the cemetery headstone of the title is toppled and restored their symbolism carries little weight. A recitation of Dylan Thomas’s poem “Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night” ends the film on a pretentious note." however comes fully alive as a character. Ms. Burstyn’s scenery-chewing performance utterly devoid of vanity makes her a spiritual cousin of Aurora Greenway in “Terms of Endearment ” although the more fearsome Hagar hasn’t a shred of Aurora’s zaniness or sentimentality." who plays Hagar as a young woman driven by impulse and intense sexuality. Ms. Horne bears such an astonishing physical resemblance to the younger Ms. Burstyn that at the point in the story where Hagar slips from youth into middle age you hardly notice the exchange of one actress for another." set in the 1960s has been updated to the present the sight of cellphones and other contemporary touches doesn’t prevent the movie from feeling like a period piece set in much earlier leaner times." passed from one generation to the next within a family is a destructive force the film is partly saved by Ellen Burstyn’s extraordinary portrayal of the novel’s feisty principal character Hagar Shipley. In the early scenes the 90-year-old Hagar who lives with her  son  Marvin (Dylan Baker) and his wife Doris (Sheila McCarthy) fiercely resists their efforts to coax her into a nursing home." Marvin (Devon Bostick plays him as a teenager) and his younger brother John (Kevin Zegers) her favorite. John breaks her heart just as she broke her father’s by falling in love with a wild girl (Ellen Page too briefly seen) of whom she disapproves." who wrote produced and directed from Margaret Laurence’s 1964 classic of Canadian literature this multigenerational family history has enough gripping moments to hold your attention but ultimately it leaves you frustrated by its failure to braid subplots and characters into a gripping narrative. The novel is simply too sprawling for a 115-minute movie; it should have been a mini-series." the movie wades even more deeply than “The Savages” into the treacherous place where children with festering resentments cope with aged parents. In a desperate final assertion of her independence Hagar flees to a crumbling house she had visited in her youth." ” a film of tightly assembled bits and pieces that don’t fit comfortably together despite clever dashes of magical realism connecting past and present wants to be a Canadian equivalent of epic soap operas like “Giant” and “The Notebook” and yes even “Gone With the Wind.”" she recognizes her stubbornness as the cause of bad decisions and misjudgments. The daughter of a well-to-do Manitoba storekeeper inordinately proud of his family’s Scottish Highland stock she is disowned by him after marrying Bram Shipley (Cole Hauser) a handsome farmer her father considers a peasant. After her unforgiving father leaves all his money to the town Hagar goes to the park named after him and furiously tramples on the flowers." as though peering through a window at events that are partly obscured. If the technique evokes the uncertainty of an old woman’s memory it alienates you from a story whose essential facts are so condensed that you need to pay continuous close attention to grasp vital information. The appearances of several important subsidiary characters are so fleeting they barely register." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11gard.html
Robert Benevides; edited by Daniel R. Padgett; music by John Swihart; production designer Jason Bistarky; produced by Tim Youd; released by Roadside Attractions. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." the godmother of this motley bunch is a real estate agent who grows and sells high-quality marijuana and employs first Nathan and later April as assistants. Sally who was probably much like the people now working for her has lost whatever softness she once had. In the movie’s nastiest scene she enlists Todd (Richard Gunn) a besotted fan of  years-old soft-core pictures of her on the Internet to kidnap the photographer and get them back." underneath they are lonely young people vulnerable to predators especially photographers offering easy money if they will take off their clothes for the camera." Willa Holland (April) Erik Scott Smith (Sammy) Alex Cendese (Nathan) Richard Gunn (Todd) Patrick Fischler (Anthony) Christopher Allport (Davey) and Jeff Newman (Carlos)." “Garden Party” makes you aware of the ravenous maw of the Internet when it comes to flesh peddling and how the unholy nexus of computers reality television and pornography (both soft and hard core) has fostered a generation of casual exhibitionists  for hire. Everywhere there is marijuana to blur whatever qualms they have about exploiting themselves and to help them put off until tomorrow the things they should do today." “Garden Party ” which is clumsily structured but well acted with pungently realistic dialogue puts you in a world without a center in which you can’t tell upside down from right-side up. But one thing you know: As long as you remain there you are not going anywhere at all." it is the same sinking slightly panicky sensation I had while watching Jason Freeland’s film “Garden Party.”" an aspiring singer-songwriter who suggests the “American Idol” contestant David Archuleta were Mr. Archuleta to land on the street and find himself living hand to mouth for a few months. Catnip to both sexes Sammy will do what he has to do to put a roof over his head for the night. In his spare time he’d rather smoke pot." sleazy no man’s land conjured by the words Sunset Strip. They are either running away from something like  April (Willa Holland) a pretty 15-year-old  who flees home after noticing her stepfather ogling her in the shower or show-business hopefuls like Nathan (Alex  Cendese) a Nebraska farm boy of uncertain sexuality who hopes to be a dancer." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11fran.html
which was written by Axelle Ropert and  directed by Serge Bozon (who also wrote the lyrics for the original songs) opens with a long shot of small figures running somewhat chaotically down a hill  toward the camera. You soon discover that the figures are women who have been unsuccessfully trying to catch sight of the front. Soon enough one  woman Camille (Sylvie Testud) receives a distressing letter from her husband — he warns that she’ll never see him again — and she decides to search him out. Persuasively disguised as a boy she leaves her cloistered world and heads into the gloam where she meets a band of soldiers under the command of a cool seemingly aloof lieutenant (Pascal Greggory)." ” a World War I movie like none other French soldiers move through darkly verdant landscapes worthy of Henri Rousseau. There are no lions or dreaming guitarists in this nocturnal green world only shadows phantoms twinkling stars and discordant harmonies created by the whirring  animals and exploding bombs. There are however several stringed instruments and every so often when this already strange land seems ready to settle into eerie silence these  soldiers break out their instruments and into jangling plaintive song." say or road-tattered boots — but melodic riffs on the 1960s pop song “Gospel Lane” by the British duo Robbie Curtice and Tom Payne. (That tune which plays over the end credits will be familiar to fans of  Belle and Sebastian.) There is something obviously discordant about this infusion of pop into the generally hallowed realm of the war movie which greatly adds to the pleasure and mystery of “La France.” Much like its expressive cinematography which ushers you deep into the night the film’s impudent genre sampling — it begins as a woman’s picture before morphing into a romantic war musical — is an invitation to boldness." with English subtitles) by Axelle Ropert; director of photography Céline Bozon; edited by François Quiqueré; music by Medhi Zannad and  Benjamin Esdraffo with   lyrics by Mr. Bozon; produced by David Thion. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." which she is in a fashion) one gives her a castoff uniform securing her disguise further. In time she melts into the group fading into their ranks much as the men seem to melt into their surroundings. Mr. Bozon working with his talented cinematographer (and sister) Céline Bozon accentuates this sense of immersion by often filming the characters at a distance a vantage point that at times turns the gray-blue uniforms into so many daubs of color on a dappled landscape. As the men thrash and push through one forested glen and thicket after another their uniforms start to seem less like a soldier’s usual camouflage and more like skins." like all countries France is as much a state of mind as a geographical place — nor why he includes these lovely incongruent yet perfect songs. Most are sung from a female point of view (“I the blind girl ...”) which may be a reference to Camille and her mission. Yet while the tunes jolt you out of the war movie that Mr. Bozon skillfully leads you into they are finally no stranger than those sung by Fred Astaire when spoken words prove inadequate. In this dark fairy tale filled with feeling and cinematic allusions — the soldiers float down a river like the runaway children in “The Night of the Hunter” — it is the indelible image of  lonely and lost men that speaks the loudest." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11exil.html
many of them onetime fellow film students supplied the meticulous rest including the sumptuous black-and-white 35-millimeter cinematography. The upshot of their singular collaborative effort is a beautifully photographed slice of down-and-almost-out life a near-heavenly vision of a near-hell that Mr. Mackenzie situated at the juncture of nonfiction and fiction. He tapped into the despair of this obscured world while also making room for the poetry and derelict beauty of its dilapidated buildings neon signs peeling walls and downcast faces." Homer Nish (Homer) and Tommy Reynolds (Tommy)." brief appearance in “The Exiles ” when the camera surveys the downtown multitudes before narrowing in on Yvonne rambling about the child in her belly and the husband at home. Like Homer and Tommy she comes across as unmoored and unloved stunned with loneliness blank. She’s soon swallowed by the dark and that’s where Mr. Mackenzie keeps her which is the film’s great flaw. Like Homer and Tommy who lose themselves in booze she has no sense of the larger world no politics no exit and neither does the film which swaddles its subjects in shadows and ravishing despair. But these Los Angeles exiles have proven impossible to erase and so too thankfully has this provocative film." the restoration and long-delayed  commercial release of “The Exiles ” a 1961 film about a largely forgotten corner of that deceptively bright city is nothing less than a welcome act of defiant remembrance." whose images of indigenous peoples in the first decades of the 20th century were collected in his multivolume series “The North American Indian.” Curtis’s photographs have been criticized for their nostalgia and sometimes fanciful relationship to the truth (he was known to remove traces of the modern world from his images) but there is no doubting their grave power. They quickly set the film’s sober almost funereal tone one deepened by the introduction of an unidentified male voice-over: “Once the American Indian lived in the ordered freedom of his own culture. Then in the 19th century the white man confined him within the boundaries of the tribal reservation.”" it would be more dead than alive. Instead Mr. Mackenzie takes his camera into the busy downtown streets where an Indian woman Yvonne (Yvonne Williams) is dreamily drifting through an open-air market. The camera follows her home to a cramped apartment packed with men all of whom — her husband Homer (Homer Nish) included — mostly ignore her even after she fries them up some chops. The focus subsequently shifts to Homer who along with his friend Tommy (Tommy Reynolds) engages in some heavy barroom drinking and generic mischief before finally joining a makeshift powwow in Chávez Ravine another legendary and lost Los Angeles neighborhood from which Latino families were evicted in the late 1950s to make way for the Dodgers." produced and directed by Kent Mackenzie; directors of photography Erik Daarstad Robert Kaufman and John Morrill; edited by Mr. Mackenzie Warren Brown Thomas Conrad Mr. Daarstad Thomas Miller and Beth Pattrick; music by Anthony Hilder the Revels Robert Hafner and Eddie Sunrise; released by Milestone Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 12 minutes. This film is not rated." John Fante and Chester Himes among others had each mapped out their version of outsider Los Angeles by the time Mr. Mackenzie began making “The Exiles.” During the Depression Fante lived on Bunker Hill on a sustenance diet of literary dreams and wrote eloquently about the divide between the city’s promise and its reality its sunshine days and enveloping nights. (“The hot semitropical nights will reek of romance you’ll never have.”)  The American Indians in “The Exiles” may be more real than most movie subjects. But steeped in what Mr. Klein  calls “postcolonial noir ” they are also in the grip of a durable Los Angeles nightmare. It’s impossible to know where their reality ends and Mr. Mackenzie’s begins." “The Exiles” was a three-year-plus labor of love for its director writer and producer Kent Mackenzie. An East Coast émigré Mr. Mackenzie (who died at 50 in 1980)  studied film at the University of Southern California on the G.I. Bill. While in school he made a short about Bunker Hill a storied densely populated neighborhood near the totemic City Hall that — before being razed in the name of urban renewal — was home to a rich diversity of retirees far-flung immigrants and the transplanted American Indians who helped inspire “The Exiles.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11eigh.html
Ms. Avelon throws herself into the role of the real-life Obermaier a one-woman counterculture who was variously often simultaneously a model and a communard a groupie and a globe-trotter a feminist and a free-lover a brat and a goddess." Matthias Schweighöfer (Rainer Langhans) David Scheller (Dieter Bockhorn) Victor Noren (Mick Jagger) Milan Peschel (Frieberg) Georg Friedrich (Lurchi) Friederike Kempter (Sabine) and Alexander Scheer (Keith Richards)." New York and Rome and thence partnered with the brash adventurer Dieter (David Scheller) into the hippie wonderlands of Pakistan India and Mexico. Like most flower-power nostalgia trips “Eight Miles High” has the irksome effect of reminding the audience  — whether too young or too square  —  that it missed out on the grooviest moment in history man. But as these things go this one goes with flair." with English subtitles) by Olaf Kraemer and Mr. Bornhak based on material by C.P. Hant Dagmar Benke and Mr. Kraemer; director of photography Benjamin Dernbecher; edited by Peter Przygodda and Sebastian Schultz; produced by Eberhard Junkersdorf and Dietmar Güntsche; released by Dokument Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes. This film is not rated." Germanic twist in “Eight  Miles High ” a full-bodied take on the life of the world-class sex kitten Uschi Obermaier (Natalia Avelon). Directed by Achim Bornhak from a screenplay written with Olaf Kraemer the movie follows with refreshing lack of judgment and titillating brio the überbohemian peregrinations of a wild child born to a drab Munich household but destined for flamboyant London orgies and spectacular third-world slumming." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11defy.html
though — by Tony Grisoni and Brian Ward — is intriguing and Mr. Pearce’s performance (bolstered by Timothy Spall as Houdini’s manager) helps sell it. Houdini at the height of his fame comes to Edinburgh on a tour offering a $10 000 prize to any medium who can make contact with his dead mother. The mother-daughter flimflammers go after the prize but love complicates everything." Catherine Zeta-Jones (Mary McGarvie) Timothy Spall (Mr. Sugarman) and Saoirse Ronan (Benji)." but Ryan and Tatum O’Neal they ain’t. Ms. Zeta-Jones is too elegant for the lowlife she’s supposed to be Ms. Ronan isn’t endearing enough to be a ragamuffin and under Gillian Armstrong’s direction never for a minute do you believe they’re mother and daughter." ” a fictionalized love story involving Harry Houdini could be a sweet little discovery if only the relationship at the core of it were more convincing. Not the one between Guy Pearce as Houdini and Catherine Zeta-Jones as the woman he becomes entangled with. What doesn’t click here is the relationship between Ms. Zeta-Jones and Saoirse Ronan who plays her daughter." Haris Zambarloukos; edited by Nicholas Beauman; music by Cezary Skubiszewski; production designer Gemma Jackson; produced by Chris Curling and Marian MacGowan; released by Third Rail. In Manhattan at Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11jour.html
I do what I can to avoid clichés and since I am only human I don’t always succeed. But I have long vowed never to stoop to what I regard as the lowest kind of hackery which is to describe a motion picture as a thrill ride a heckofa ride or any other kind of ride." Jennifer Flackett and Mark Levin based on the novel by Jules Verne; director of photography Chuck Schuman; edited by Paul Martin Smith Dirk Westervelt and Steven Rosenblum; music by Andrew Lockington; production designer David Sandefur; visual effects supervisor Christopher Townsend; produced by Charlotte Huggins and Beau Flynn; released by Warner Brothers Pictures New Line Cinema and Walden Media. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." quite is a movie. The 3-D technology which you experience (in the theaters where it’s available) through spiffy gray-tinted glasses does provide a few “Wow! ” “Eww!” and “Yikes!” moments though the most impressive of them are also the least spectacular as when Mr. Hutcherson  swings a yo-yo or Mr. Fraser after brushing his teeth spits into the sink. Otherwise the effect messes with your ability to see clearly what is in the frame so that the actors look like cutouts arranged in a snow globe." since the script by Michael Weiss Jennifer Flackett and Mark Levin is as functional as the direction by Eric Brevig is fussy. The geologist whose brother vanished trying to prove his Vernean hypothesis takes the brother’s adolescent son to Iceland where they meet the  mountain guide whose father also vanished into the center of the Earth. A lot of scientifically preposterous mildly diverting stuff happens down there and then just like that the ride is over." Josh Hutcherson (Sean Anderson) and Anita Briem (Hannah Asgeirsson)." ” a new movie that shares its name with a beloved Jules Verne novel copies of which occasionally appear on screen? On their way to the titular destination the three main characters — a geologist (Brendan Fraser) his young nephew (Josh Hutcherson) and an Icelandic mountain guide (Anita Briem) — speed down steeply inclined tracks in wheeled cars rather like a roller coaster. A bit later as they fly through the subterranean air one of them predicts that they will descend into something “just like a water slide.” Near the end after they have parasailed fled from beasts and surfed on magnetic rocks they whiz down a green hillside on a sled improvised from the jawbone of a dinosaur. If this movie is not a ride then what is it?" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11hell.html
packing a remarkable range of moods and genre elements into a fairly compact 110 minutes. The love between Hellboy and the downcast combustible Liz Sherman (Selma Blair) gives this film like its precursor an undercurrent of hard-boiled noirish romanticism. There are also Tolkienish  elves (as Mr. del Toro limbers up for “The Hobbit”) officious bureaucrats and a showstopping Barry Manilow song washed down with many cans of Tecate beer. The whole affair is pulpy jokey sometimes touching and frequently nonsensical: a big mess and mostly a lot of fun." finely modulated films in the past (“The Devil’s Backbone” and “Pan’s Labyrinth ” most notably). Here though with a big budget to play with and a pop-culture franchise to tend he lets abundance trump coherence." based on a story by Mr. del Toro and Mike Mignola and on the Dark Horse comic by Mr. Mignola; director of photography Guillermo Navarro; edited by Bernat Vilaplana; music by Danny Elfman; production designer Stephen Scott; creature and makeup effects by Mike Elizalde; produced by Lawrence Gordon Mike Richardson and Lloyd Levin; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." it is lovable in its prodigious grotesquery. It was made with the kind of heedless geeky enthusiasm that has been drained out of the standard somber superhero melodramas that crowd the multiplexes these days. It’s an artful clever throwaway that may over time turn into a valuable collectible." or primarily an ecological allegory though it does have some twinklings of green consciousness amid all the red- and gold-hued mayhem. There is just too much else going on to single out any particular theme or mood which is part of the movie’s charm and also sometimes a source of exasperation." ” Guillermo del Toro’s profligate sequel to “Hellboy ” capable of delighting even the most jaded comic-book-weary summer-blockbuster conscript. (That would be me.) Lately we have seen plenty of big asphalt-smashing street battles between hero and nemesis — Tim Roth and Edward Norton hopped up on military growth hormones hurling cars across Harlem in “The Incredible Hulk”; Charlize Theron and Will Smith enacting some kind of meteorological superhero S & M in “Hancock” — but nothing quite like the scene in which Ron Perlman’s Hellboy a baby in one hand and an oversize gun in the other mixes it up with a giant angry plant." but also the weird animist vibe that the photosynthesizing fiend gives off. He might have sprung from the pastoral imagination of the Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki if Mr. Miyazaki’s environmentalism inclined him toward anger rather than sorrow. And even after Hellboy carries out a necessary and brutal pruning a moment of mourning is permitted. That raging vine after all was the last of an endangered species." who robs an auction house and whose twin sister (Anna Walton) bleeds maple syrup whenever he is injured. Back at the top-secret paranormal government lab where Hellboy grouchily works his put-upon boss (the indispensable Jeffrey Tambor) welcomes a new authority figure the punctilious Dr. Johann Kraus a puff of gas with a creaky diving suit and a Prussian accent (voiced by Seth MacFarlane). Abe Sapien (Doug Jones) Hellboy’s begilled foil and sidekick returns and this time finds some romance of his own." grown-up problems and salty lingo." 000 enchanted mechanical warriors (the Golden Army of the film’s title) this director is a compulsive and prodigious maker of creatures and for this movie he seems to have opened up his notebooks and let his imagination run free. Around every corner is a strange new beast or gizmo from the tiny swarming “tooth fairies” who devour a room full of art collectors to the slimy denizens of the troll market one of whom has what looks like an infant attached to its chest. “I’m not a baby I’m a tumor ” the appendage explains." painted bright red and outfitted with sawed-off horns and an extra-large fist is happy to ignore the trappings of digital-era cinematic splendor and act like the cigar-chomping hero of an old black-and-white B picture. The script (and the comics by Mike Mignola that are the movies’  source) may identify the character as a demon exiled from the underworld but as a movie archetype Hellboy is more like the gruff sergeant or the cynical gumshoe with a soft heart naturally beating under the hard shell. In Mr. Perlman’s performance you catch glimpses of Bogey and Lee Marvin and hints of Robert Mitchum and George Kennedy all blended with devilish glee and disarmingly sexy sincerity." Selma Blair (Liz Sherman) Doug Jones (Abe Sapien/Chamberlain/Angel of Death) Jeffrey Tambor (Tom Manning) Luke Goss (Prince Nuada) Anna Walton (Princess Nuala) Seth MacFarlane (voice of Johann Kraus) and John Hurt (Trevor Buttenholm)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11haro.html
Long Island Los Angeles and Boca Raton Fla." Ally Sheedy (Maureen Clemens) Nikki Blonsky (Rhonda Baxter) Cuba Gooding Jr. (Cromer) Fred Willard (Dr. Pratt) Chris Parnell (Coach Vanderpool) Rachel Dratch (Ms. Norris) and Colin Quinn (Reedy)." Christopher Lavasseur; edited by Colleen Sharp and Harp Pekin; music by Brady Harris; production designer Jory Adam; produced by William Sherak Jason Shuman Cuba Gooding Jr. and Morris S. Levy; released by City Lights Pictures. In Manhattan at the AMC Loews Village VII 66 Third Avenue at 13th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." crotchetiness and a flagrant case of male pattern baldness. If the milk of hilarity just blew out your nostrils have I got the movie for you! If not you should know that this would-be comedic conceit is the single repetitive aggressively tedious joke behind “Harold” — unless you count the participation of Cuba Gooding Jr. as a jive-talking janitor and of course you never do." ” that’s because it originally was. Written and directed by T. Sean Shannon (with some help in the writing  — and oh how he needed it  —  from Greg Fields) “Harold” is the type of one-note dead zone ideally suited for a bathroom break while sitting home on a Saturday night alone and semidrunk in front of the television. At feature length it’s enough to make you tear your hair out." like old; Harold ingratiates himself by buying them wine coolers at the liquor store; Harold learns to make his way in life or what passes for it in this cinematic black hole." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11dave.html
intimations of violence." Elizabeth Banks (Gina) Gabrielle Union (No. 3) Scott Caan (Dooley) Ed Helms (No. 2) and Kevin Hart (No. 17)." alas has been engaged in much the same dirty business for too much of his career. “Meet Dave ” which is about some itty-bitty aliens who land on Earth (the real and a back-lot New York City)  for some reason or other is by no means the worst of his projects. Directed by Brian Robbins from a script by Rob Greenberg and Bill Corbett the movie is clichéd but innocuous one grating swishy stereotype aside. The director and writers have all toiled in television’s laugh factory (Mr. Corbett is an alumnus of “Mystery Science Theater 3000”) and the movie plays like a half-hour sitcom episode that has been stretched — principally through Mr. Murphy’s walking and talking — to  feature-length running time." which finds one of the two characters Mr. Murphy plays newly landed on Earth and face down in dirt features him executing a herky-jerky silly walk — at one point forming a series of cubistic right angles — that brings to mind the prime of Jerry Lewis and Steve Martin alike. This is a performer who from his snapping rubber-band mouth to his fancy-dancing toes wrings comedy (and sometimes a little menace) from every twitch and tremble. I could watch Mr. Murphy go herky-jerky for 90 minutes but these bits of pure comedy have been predictably folded into  the usual filler: a cute kid a love interest some plot." other than the giant tongue that unrolls like a red carpet the shoe that puts the wing in wingtip and the likable Elizabeth Banks who holds her ground against Mr. Murphy as an open-minded New Yorker. Of minor note is that Mr. Murphy’s penchant for playing more than one character which until recently  suggested an impatience with the limitations of most of his roles has started to feel like a hedge against boredom. Though mildly amusing his two characters in “Meet Dave” — a wee captain and a humanoid  spaceship — neither tax nor stretch him. When the captain instructs the spaceship to walk and talk among the earthlings it does so perfectly the very picture of a well-oiled comedy machine." Clark Mathis; edited by Ned Bastille; music by John Debney; production designer Clay A. Griffith; produced by Jon Berg Todd Komarnicki and David T. Friendly; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." ” the latest in a long line of disposable Eddie Murphy vehicles the star talks funny walks funny and enters a bathroom stall for some rather less humorous noisy business. In yet another potty scene (this movie knows its target audience) he stands with his legs apart as dollar bills float and coins (ouch) tumble from his posterior excreting money like a slot machine that’s racked up three 7’s.  He poops  money for laughs though of course what he’s really doing is pooping laughs for money. Talk about filthy lucre." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/11/movies/11augu.html
and “August” has a dark desperation that’s morbidly compelling. But the movie’s amoral momentum is fatally slowed by an acronym-heavy script and flimsy characterizations that offer fine actors — including Rip Torn as Tom’s contemptuous father and Naomie Harris as his missed opportunity — little to play." “August” is a low-key drama in high-tech clothing. Set in New York City in August 2001 in the tense climate of a dot-com startup where stock price and corporate morale are plummeting the movie unspools with an unrelieved cynicism and a metallic aftertaste." and Josh Hartnett struggles to maintain his. As Tom the silver-tongued company co-founder he inhabits a Hedi Slimane silhouette and an elegantly impersonal loft. A walking sales pitch Tom repels his kinder gentler brother and partner (Adam Scott) and prefers expensive toys to women. As with Willy Loman it’s never clear what he’s selling: his product is as inchoate as his personality." weak sex and robust greed." Andrij Parekh; edited by Pete Beaudreau; music by Nathan Larson; production designer Roshelle Berliner; produced by Charlie Corwin Elisa Pugliese David Guy Levy Clara Markowicz and Josh Hartnett; released by First Look Studios. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes." Naomie Harris (Sarrah) Adam Scott (Joshua Sterling) Robin Tunney (Melanie Hanson) Andre Royo (Dylan Gottschalk) Emmanuelle Chriqui (Morela Sterling) David Bowie (Cyrus Ogilvie) and Rip Torn (David Sterling)." as a ruthless venture capitalist even more welcome. His final confrontation with Tom is a brutal reminder that old-money influence trumps new-millennium bravado any month of the year." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/09/movies/09rivi.html
evocative definitions of the word rebus). Less but more rewarding attention is paid to the completion of a watercolor and the recitation of a Bourgeois-composed quatrain. The film seems vaguely to murmur “Wish you were here ” while proving that if all footage of geniuses has value value fluctuates and that geniuses only human after all are quite capable of boring your socks off." ” as the title translates is not a film that seeks to explain or profile a seminal contemporary artist. It is more of  an extended free-form rather enervated home movie culled from Ms. Cornand’s extensive visits to Ms. Bourgeois’s ramshackle Chelsea apartment." the Mistress and the Tangerine ” the superb documentary portrait that closed on Tuesday at Film Forum in Manhattan. Now arrives “La Rivière Gentille ” one of three feature-length portraits by the filmmaker Brigitte Cornand that are screening at Anthology Film Archives and that afford if not a whole day at least an exceedingly long afternoon in the company of Ms. Bourgeois. (This  96-year-old artist is the subject of a retrospective at the Guggenheim Museum that runs through Sept. 28.)" with English subtitles; director of photography Ms. Cornand; edited by Julien Rey; released by Les Films du Samois and the  Pompidou Center with Harvestworks and the Easton Foundation. At the Anthology Film Archives 32-34 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." especially when at work on her objects drawings and paintings but equally through her intensity and nuance of voice pose and gesture." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/09/movies/09ratt.html
Mr. Gerber and Mr. Moss; edited by Alex Hall and Pax Wassermann; music by Paul Brill; released by Market Road/Mile End Films/Don’t Foam. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." in which portable digital video cameras give a feeling of intimacy and immediacy and political views are implicit or omitted altogether." some of whom clearly relish a chance to be the bad guys. In the course of three weeks the battalion moves through several stages of engagement identified in chapter titles (“Reconstruction ” “Insurgency” and so on) that suggest a microcosm of the larger war. The soldiers travel between their temporary base and the town spending time at checkpoints and in long meetings with the mayor the deputy mayor and the chief of police." a group of coordinators in civilian clothes controls events in the town toying with human fates like fantasy gamers or Olympian gods out of Homer. They plot “inserts” — unexpected but never implausible events that complicate the mission. Medina Wasl with its hand-lettered signs and functional architecture starts to feel more and more like an unpredictable even hopeless place and Colonel McLaughlin’s stoical self-confidence takes a beating. He takes his job of bringing “peace and prosperity” and “a brighter future” to Medina Wasl seriously and is dismayed to find  that a straight-talking can-do attitude will not necessarily get him very far toward this goal." ” a new documentary by Tony Gerber and Jesse Moss gives a remarkably thorough and detailed account of the difficult conditions facing American soldiers in Iraq. The filmmakers follow an Army battalion under the command of Lt. Col. Robert McLaughlin as it tries to bring a semblance of order and stability to a fractious Iraqi town menaced by violence. The soldiers must adjudicate disputes between Sunni and Shiite Muslims prop up the local authorities and fight off insurgents who are hidden in plain sight in the middle of town and carry out roadside bomb and rocket attacks at the worst possible moments." “Full Battle Rattle” takes no overt side in any arguments about the cause and course of the war. Instead the film emphasizes the strangeness and complexity of the conflict and also the endlessness that seems to be its most salient feature. Military personnel rotate through Medina Wasl en route to and from tours of duty in Iraq. Iraqis who have fled their country recreate fragments of it in the California desert and the surreal encounters between them seem like a fact of life or an episode of reality television." all of this might sound like a familiar scenario. Except that in the case of “Full Battle Rattle ” a scenario is literally what is involved. The Iraqi village of Medina Wasl is in effect a movie set part of a training site built and operated by the Army in the Mojave Desert. Colonel McLaughlin’s earnest  campaign to win hearts and minds and fight a successful — or at least nondisastrous — counterinsurgency is an exercise a preparation for the real dangers he and his soldiers  will face when they deploy to the actual Iraq." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/04/movies/04kabl.html
Michael Lohmann; edited by Lawrence Maddox; music by Roddy Bottum; production designer Walter Barnett; produced by Rick Rosenthal Gary Dean Simpson Rhoades Rader Jeff Balis and Doug Sutherland; released by Regent Releasing. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes." ” which operates on surreal cartoon logic doesn’t bear close scrutiny. There are holes everywhere. When Salman gets the job as Kabluey which Leslie finds for him the crisis that brought him into the family is nearly forgotten. Who is caring for the boys? Toward the end the movie takes a queasy turn toward the saccharine." Scott Prendergast (Salman) Christine Taylor (Betty) Conchata Ferrell (Kathleen) Jeffrey Dean Morgan (Brad) Chris Parnell (Frank) Cameron Wofford (Cameron) Landon Henninger (Lincoln) and Teri Garr (Suze)." an overstressed mother bringing up two hellions Cameron (Cameron Wofford) and Lincoln (Landon Henninger) while her husband a National Guardsman fights in Iraq. When informed that her husband’s tour has been extended by several months Leslie visibly crumples. No one is better than Ms. Kudrow at playing emotionally bedraggled women hanging on by their fingernails and your heart goes out to her even when she behaves atrociously." ” hisses Cameron the older and meaner of the two. And their pranks like sprinkling cleanser on Salman’s eyes and mouth while he is asleep and putting thumbtacks in his breakfast cereal show they mean business." who is forced to take a job at BlueNexion to pay for her children’s health insurance. Salman unemployed and homeless after losing his last job as a laminater in a copy shop nervously accepts the invitation. In the recent epidemic of comedies about 30-something men in the throes of severe arrested development he is one of the most pitifully incompetent losers." Mr. Prendergast plays him like a long-suffering Buster Keaton stumblebum; he is so far beyond misery he is practically mute. Mr. Prendergast gives him the wide vacant eyes of a silent clown who is so resigned to a life of humiliation that his face has lost any expression save for his mouth which gapes in an attitude of befuddled amazement." Salman finds an odd kind of transcendence in the work. He becomes two people: one a lost 32-year-old boy cowering inside the suit the other the adorable bobbing and shuffling Kabluey who inspires cuddly affection." an alumnus of the Groundlings comedy troupe wrote and directed  “Kabluey ” which is very funny in a ghastly way. All the characters —  be they the gossipy backbiting Austin Tex. equivalents of television’s desperate housewives  or Salman’s morose fellow passengers on the bus to work —  suffer from excruciating boredom. It is a malaise that rises like steam from the flat Middle Western  landscape in which the corporation’s emptied offices symbolize an economy going bust." Salman’s job is to distribute fliers advertising office space in BlueNexion’s sleek nearly deserted headquarters. Because he can’t hold the fliers in his inflated paws Salman has to keep them tucked under one arm from which they are continually slipping and scattering onto the road." ” a bittersweet indie comedy whose hapless protagonist Salman (Scott Prendergast) spends a good part of the movie waddling along the side of a  highway in a blue foam-rubber suit. Dressed as Kabluey the corporate mascot of BlueNexion a failing  Internet company in Texas Salman is paid $6 an hour to attract attention." a man outfitted as a giant Gouda cheese who dispenses tidbits in front of a supermarket. Together the two fully costumed eventually engage BlueNexion’s sleazy womanizing chief executive (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) in a slapstick brawl." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/04/movies/04gonz.html
most accurate account” of the election according to Frank Mankiewicz Mr. McGovern’s campaign manager. Making no pretense of neutrality Thompson broadcast his admiration for Mr. McGovern and his contempt for  Mr. McGovern’s Democratic rivals. He also expressed one of the great sustaining passions of his writing  life namely his unquenchable hatred for Richard M. Nixon." language and some nudity. ." Thompson’s symbol for which was a two-thumbed fist clutching a peyote button denotes a drug-fueled madcap libertarianism a pursuit of freedom to the very edge of good sense and beyond. But as  Thompson first used the word gonzo was an aurally suggestive semantically vague adjective and the noun it modified was above all journalist. And it is to Mr. Gibney’s great credit that while he pays due attention to the outsize cartoonish celebrity persona  Thompson fell back on when his literary powers began to wane this  film concentrates on the bold innovative journalism that secured Thompson’s reputation and assures his immortality." whose other films include “Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room” and the Oscar-winning “Taxi to the Dark Side ” assembles a lively collage of interviews and found materials. Mr. Depp reads choice excerpts from  Thompson’s work and the writer in his prime is glimpsed in scenes from earlier documentaries. “Gonzo” is  a fascinating history lesson and a bit of a cautionary tale — about the corrosive effects of rampant drug use yes but more about how fame can turn into the scourge of talent." Maryse Alberti; edited by Alison Ellwood; music by David Schwartz; produced by Mr. Gibney Graydon Carter Jason Kliot Joana Vicente Ms. Ellwood and Eva Orner; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes." diffident Kentuckian with good manners and a mail-order divinity degree (hence the mock-honorific “Doctor”) Thompson had the good fortune to be around during a heroic and lawless age of American magazine writing when visionary editors were willing to publish (and cover expenses for) all kinds of adventures and experiments. It was Carey McWilliams of The Nation who first printed Thompson’s chronicle of riding with the Hells Angels motorcycle gang an article — and in 1966 a book — that sketched out part of the emerging mythology of the  ’60s and also  foreshadowed some of the era’s dissonances and contradictions." Sandy and Anita; his son Juan; and Ralph Steadman the British artist whose drawings are nearly as integral to the Thompson oeuvre as the author’s own jazzy swaybacked prose. The peanut gallery is filled out by some surprisingly establishmentarian figures including Patrick J. Buchanan and George McGovern who served the master of gonzo as sources and subjects when he turned his attention to politics." whose founder and publisher Jann Wenner is among the witnesses gathered by Mr. Gibney to dish critique and pay tribute." which can leave you feeling a bit deflated after two hours. But at his best he was braver funnier and more ruthlessly honest than just about any other magazine writer and “Gonzo” confirms his place in the great American parade of cranks renegades and sages — that is in the best most disreputable corner of our literary pantheon." the 1968 Democratic convention in Chicago was a watershed for  Thompson who was appalled by the ferocity of Mayor  Richard J. Daley’s police force. Thompson’s  temperamental suspicion of authority took on a political dimension which expressed itself through a characteristic mixture of earnestness and clowning. As a candidate for sheriff of Pitkin County Colo. in 1970 he raised the banner of “freak power” and also raised serious issues about land use and law enforcement. And his reporting on the 1972 presidential election — published in “Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail ” his masterpiece — was a brazen mixture of passionate partisanship scabrous insight and pure invention." “Gonzo ” were not subtitled “The Life and Work of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson ” there would be little doubt about its subject. Thompson who committed suicide in 2005 survives to some degree in the popular imagination because of his self-burnished reputation for wild excess. Embodied on the screen by Bill Murray (in Art Linson ‘s underrated “Where the Buffalo Roam” from 1980) and Johnny Depp (in Terry Gilliam’s overblown “Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas” from 1998) and travestied as the conspiratorial Uncle Duke in Garry Trudeau’s “Doonesbury” comic strip Thompson remains a durable icon of countercultural bad craziness." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/04/movies/04girl.html
picked up as a 12-year-old by a man who provided a “honeymoon period” of kindness and affection before turning her out to earn; and Martha who makes excuses for her pimp’s brutal behavior (“I’m his investment”) while wondering why her parents don’t come to save her." founded and run by Rachel Lloyd a former victim of sexual exploitation. Part den mother part therapist Ms. Lloyd is a heroic counterpoint to the movie’s token pimps Anthony and Chris Griffith whose repulsive home videos — shot to kick-start a reality-television career and subsequently used to convict them — suggest only that reasoning and pimping may be mutually exclusive activities." “Very Young Girls” is very far from exploitative. Adopting a confessional direct-to-camera interview style for most of its running time this unvarnished vérité documentary about teenage prostitutes in New York City resolutely resists the urge to dramatize. The heartbreaking stories are drama enough." 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated." class or race (only one of the film’s victims is white) “Very Young Girls” is still an effective scratch on the surface of a serious social problem. However hard it is out there for a pimp it’s not nearly hard enough." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/04/movies/04trev.html
a morose alcoholic who passes out during a party and awakes to discover she had sex with a stranger she can’t remember. Together Trevor; his promiscuous best friend Jake (Jay Brannan); and Andie get tested for H.I.V. One comes back positive." but it makes you want to avoid their company at all cost." Trevor ends the relationship with tragic consequences and begins dating Ephram who admitted Darrell to the hospital after his last overdose. During their first extended conversation Ephram invites Trevor to play a game in which they gaze at the city lights and invent imaginary lives for people behind the windows." “Holding Trevor.” It suggests that the budding relationship between Trevor (Brent Gorski) who works for an answering service in Los Angeles and Ephram (Eli Kranski) a hospital intern faces some hurdles." Jay Brannan (Jake) Melissa Searing (Andie) Eli Kranski (Ephram) and Christopher Wyllie (Darrell)." Kara Stephens; edited by Donna Mathewson; production designer Oneita Parker; released by Regent Releasing. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes. This film is not rated." who wrote the screenplay resembles a much younger Steve Buscemi. His pretentious voice-over narration wanders off into nowhere. The digital camera scours the actors’ blank faces (including Mr. Gorski’s) in extreme close-up as though searching for substance that is nowhere to be found." there is no sleazy zing of “Less Than Zero”-worthy glamor." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/04/movies/04toge.html
with English subtitles) by Slindile Moya and Mr. Taylor; director of photography Mr. Taylor; edited by Masahiro Hirakubo and Oliver Huddleston; music by Darion Marianelli; produced by Teddy Liefer and Mr. Taylor; released by Palm Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." witness their optimism and marvel at the harmony of their songs which they rehearse for a coming trip to England. You’ve seen this sort of thing before but the film directed by Paul Taylor happens to be especially well photographed and the youngsters more winning than most. So you’re humbled and remember to feel blessed that you’ve got a job to worry about losing in the first place and that your brother isn’t dying of AIDS." but it passes soon enough and you go about your life." going about your life worried about your job or the price of gas or whether you can afford next month’s health insurance premium. And then for one reason or another you come across “We Are Together ” a documentary about the bright-eyed golden-voiced children who live at Agape an orphanage in South Africa." and you can never have too much humanity. So you feel good and leave it at that. Or maybe you push a little deeper and wonder to what extent the filmmakers were or were not involved in their subjects’ lives. You think about the relative fortune of these particular children as they’re flown around the world and booked into recording studios and whether there isnt something problematic about the type of documentary concerned with an uncommonly privileged subset of the woefully underprivileged." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/04/movies/04capa.html
of love and perhaps because of the local angle of (or rather by) the Chicago Cubs. But Mr. Kinney a founder of the Steppenwolf Theater Company in Chicago and a familiar face from film and television never gives his movie a sustained pulse. The actors look as if they’re having a reasonably fine time but there’s no sense of commitment here no sense that this was a movie that absolutely passionately had to be made. As it happens the liveliest performance is one of the briefest and comes from Mr. Baker who goes to crazy town and back in a short frenzied scene about an especially masochistic Cub fan. He jolts the movie awake." Chicago and Los Angeles." based on his novel; director of photography Vanja Cernjul; edited by Tim Streeto; music by Robert Burger; production designer Dan Davis; produced by Celine Rattray Galt Niederhoffer Daniela Taplin Lundberg and Tim Evans; released by IFC Films. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." Virginia Madsen (Charlotte) Alan Alda (Rollie) Louis C. K. (Big Stan) Jimmy Bennett (Dillon) Jim True-Frost (Donny Prine) Dylan Baker (Mad Dog McClure) Bobby Cannavale (Lee Vivyan) Jeff Perry (Casey Dean) and Lois Smith (Belle)." who’s recovering from a debilitating accident is summoned to Missouri by his mother (Ms. Smith) to care for Rollie an eccentric one tic away from institutionalization. Though he’s meant to be fading fast Rollie — who has fitted a manual typewriter with fishhooks believing the local lake fish make poetry with each nibble — mostly comes across as a novelist’s contrivance an à la carte sampling of prickly charm folksy paternalism and pathos. It’s the kind of character that Mr. Alda might have pulled off if he had been given a firmer hand than the one offered by Mr. Kinney. As it is though he wrings real feeling from some of his scenes Mr. Alda makes twinkly lethal." Mr. Broderick does what he can — like the rest of the cast he appears to have been left to his own devices — mainly by looking completely deflated a miscalculation for a character charged with shouldering so much narrative weight.  When Mr. Broderick stands in the middle of the frame which is where the inelegant cinematography often situates the performers it’s the actor who looks stranded rather than the character." Matthew Broderick Virginia Madsen Lois Smith Dylan Baker Bobby Cannavale  — through their respectable if pedestrian paces in the comedy-drama hybrid “Diminished Capacity.” Adapted by Sherwood Kiraly from his novel of the same title the sleepy proceedings turn on two relatives — a Chicago newspaper editor Cooper (Mr. Broderick) and his Missourian Uncle Rollie (Mr. Alda) — whose lives have been upended by their failing and flickering minds." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/03/movies/03wack.html
a verbal tic matched by a few too many fetishistic period details. Did I mention that the movie takes place in 1994? If that all-important fact slips your mind Mr. Levine will supply plenty of reminders from the shell-toed Adidas sneakers on Luke’s feet to the dropped names of Kurt Cobain Notorious B.I.G. Forrest Gump and Rudolph W. Giuliani. Those were the days right? No doubt. But the fussed-over precision of the historical moment feels more like a gimmick than a source of insight much as the dreamy haze cast over Manhattan by Petra Korner’s cinematography looks like a ready-made one-size-fits-all cloak of nostalgia." Petra Korner; edited by Josh Noyes; production designer Annie Spitz; produced by Keith Calder Felipe Marino and Joe Neurauter; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." which resides mainly in the idiosyncrasy of the characters and the skill of the actors portraying them. Lately Mr. Kingsley has been so busy as to seem indiscriminate taking oddball roles in movies big and small decent and dreadful — “BloodRayne”? “The Love Guru”? Sir Ben really!" transient romance between Luke and Stephanie is without interest. Mr. Levine is careful not to overstate the melodrama of young love allowing Luke’s own longing and confusion to set the tone. Mr. Peck formerly a star of the Nickelodeon tweener sitcom “Drake and Josh ” works a little too hard to convey the tension between Luke’s outward affectlessness and the riot of feeling inside. He shows great seriousness and potential as an actor but he also shows too much of what he has learned in acting class." and Luke is a social misfit but the main difference between them may be temperamental. She is a relatively optimistic hedonistic soul whereas he is a brooder and a worrier for whom the bong is always half empty. Or as Stephanie puts it in a bit of dialogue that gives the film its title: “I look at the dopeness. You look at the wackness.”" heartbreak and disillusionment with the adult world that he is about to enter — is to sacrifice a degree of novelty. Mr. Levine tries to compensate with a combination of historical authenticity and low-key emotional sincerity." had sex and smoked pot. Thank goodness that’s all over." Mr. Kingsley makes out with Mary-Kate Olsen who in 1994 at the age of 8 was nearing the end of her run in “Full House.”  Her character here a stoner named Union is part of a supporting cast of eccentrics and urban curiosities — Method Man and Jane Adams are two more — who pleasantly divert “The Wackness” from its main narrative purpose." as they say in the movies changed forever. The movie  he is in “The Wackness ” written and directed by Jonathan Levine makes a good-faith effort to steer clear of such clichés and succeeds and fails in roughly equal measure." a lot certainly happens to Luke a shy slack-jawed Upper East Sider who earns his pocket money by selling marijuana. His family is in danger of being evicted from its apartment. He spends a night in jail. The main thing though is that Luke falls in love with Stephanie (Olivia Thirlby) whose stepfather Dr. Squires (Ben Kingsley) is both Luke’s psychiatrist and one of his clients. (It’s a barter arrangement one kind of therapy exchanged for another.)" meanwhile who had a few nice scenes in “Juno ” does a fine job as she did in “Snow Angels ” of playing the smart adolescent seductress of a teenage loner. I hope the angst mongers of the independent film world can find a leading role that will test her talents and show the full extent of her dopeness." Josh Peck (Luke) Famke Janssen (Mrs. Squires) Olivia Thirlby (Stephanie) Mary-Kate Olsen (Union) Jane Adams (Eleanor) and Method Man (Percy)." however he is almost always a delight to watch. Dr. Squires by turns squirrelly reckless with a less than firm grip on his marriage (to a dazed and tragic Famke Janssen) reality and the will to live is perhaps the most preposterous character in “The Wackness ” and for just that reason the most intriguingly plausible. The doctor is for his young patient and pot supplier both a mentor and mascot. His evident untrustworthiness makes him the only grown-up in whom Luke has any faith." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/02/movies/02tell.html
Alex still numb with grief is interrogated by the police after two bodies are unearthed near the site of her murder along with a key to a safe-deposit box that contains incriminating photos and a bloodstained weapon that connects him to Margot’s death." Alex begins receiving anonymous e-mail messages directing him to a Webcam video of a woman who appears to be Margot gazing anxiously into a surveillance camera. An attached message warns:  “Tell no one. They’re watching.” He begins a desperate undercover search for the woman suddenly believing Margot may still be alive." except David Lynch in his surreal way. Watching it is like gorging on a hot- fudge sundae in the good old days when few worried about sugar and fat. There are no bogus geopolitics weighing it down with a spurious relevance. Beautifully written and acted “Tell No One” is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost." Alex Beck (François Cluzet) is a kindhearted pediatrician in Paris who goes out of his way to help the poor in the clinic where he works. He is also a spiritual cousin of Scottie Ferguson from “Vertigo” in his obsession with a woman who may or may not be dead." Hélène (Kristin Scott Thomas) is the wealthy lover of his secretive younger sister Anne (Marina Hands) a competitive equestrian. Through Hélène Alex acquires a high-powered defense lawyer (Nathalie Baye) who begins to doubt Alex’s innocence after he flees the police." nasty fun. I watched it twice. It was even better the second time." which involves murder and depravity in high places is so elaborately twisty that about halfway through the movie you stop trying to figure it out and let its polluted waters wash over you trusting that the denouement will reveal all. It does and it doesn’t. When the truth spills out and ugly revelations pile onto one another in an extended final confession the puzzle pieces fit more snugly than those of “The Big Sleep ” the granddaddy of impenetrable noirs. But one of the pleasures of both films is surrendering to a vision of corruption and evil that resists tidy explanations." Marie-Josée Croze (Margot Beck) André Dussollier (Jacques Laurentin) Kristin Scott Thomas (Hélène Perkins) François Berléand (Eric Levkowitch) Nathalie Baye (Elysabeth Feldman) Jean Rochefort (Gilbert Neuville) Marina Hands (Anne Beck) Gilles Lellouche (Bruno) and Guillaume Canet (Philippe Neuville)." whose 2002 satire “My Idol ” examined the warped mind of a sadistic producer of reality television. In that movie Mr. Canet played the producer’s aspiring young assistant forced to be his boss’s court jester (and his wife’s part-time lover) at a sinister country estate with a carnivorous aviary. Mr. Canet also appears briefly in “Tell No One” as the debauched son of Gilbert Neuville (Jean Rochefort) a billionaire politician and horse-racing magnate whose tentacles extend in every direction. In the film François Berléand who played the producer in “My Idol ” portrays a sympathetic police investigator in charge of Alex’s case." he and his wife Margot (Marie-Josée Croze) are revisiting the remote country lake where they spent summers as children and became sweethearts who carved their initials on a tree. Blissfully married decades later they return to swim nude in the moonlight then sprawl on the offshore raft where they have a minor squabble about real estate. Margot abruptly departs and disappears into the woods. A minute later Alex hears a stifled cry. Scrambling to shore he is struck on the head while pulling himself out of the water. He remains in a coma for three days." Guillaume Canet’s delicious contemporary thriller “Tell No One” is “Vertigo” meets “The Fugitive” by way of “The Big Sleep.” That is meant as high praise." who was inexplicably pulled to shore recuperates Margot’s father Jacques (André Dussollier) an imperious police inspector identifies his daughter’s body in the woods. In the film’s most wrenching moment Alex comes apart in a drunken reverie remembering her cremation as Jeff Buckley’s version of the early-’50s torch song “Lilac Wine” is heard on the soundtrack." a gangster  (Gilles Lellouche) whose hemophiliac son’s life was saved by Alex in the clinic rescues him and spirits him to a safe hiding place in a working-class suburb where young toughs delight in foiling the police. The rescue follows a thrilling chase sequence  worthy of “North by Northwest.” Like that 1959 classic “Tell No One” is about an innocent man on the run with nowhere to turn. Mr. Cluzet may not be Cary Grant but he is a convincing Everyman with a heart and soul stretched to the breaking point." with English subtitles) by Mr. Canet and Philippe Lefebvre based on the novel by Harlan Coben; director of photography Christophe Offenstein; edited by Hervé de Luze; music by -M-;  production designer Philippe Chiffre; produced by Alain Attal; released by Music Box Films. Running time: 2 hours 5 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/02/movies/02hanc.html
” before the machinery has fully kicked in and the story is still wreathed in blissful ambiguity you see the star Will Smith sprawled on a Los Angeles bench. Dirty disheveled in full distressed costume and character and within easy sloshing reach of a bottle he looks lost and alone much like all the human detritus that washes up in every city and remains mostly unnoticed. But there’s no ignoring Hancock who has amazing powers. He can fly for starters and soon enough he’s blasting straight into the heavens the first homeless superhero in movies  —  Superbum!" knowing laughs with lots of kablooey “Hancock” is principally a comedy and for a while plays out that way notably when Mr. Smith is interacting with Jason Bateman. Their characters meet cute when Hancock saves Ray (Mr. Bateman) from being flattened by a freight train. In typical fashion Hancock botches the save. He plucks Ray from death but in the process derails the train and also true to bad form receives an invective-laced earful from the gathering mob. Struck by the crowd’s hostility Ray a public relations guy with a do-gooder streak and a knockout wife Mary (Charlize Theron) decides to rescue Hancock in turn by giving him a superhero makeover one that follows a course blazed by many a fallen star (contrition redemption fabulousness)." who explored heroism of a different stripe in his poignant high school football movie “Friday Night Lights ” and showed off terrific action chops in the underrated flick “The Kingdom ” is not a comedy natural. He squeezes laughs out of “Hancock”  —  Mr. Bateman needs no goosing  —  though some of its biggest yuks are fairly yucky like a cringing bit involving a bizarre variant on prison rape. (That’s entertainment?) For the most part what Mr. Berg does is bring gravity to “Hancock ” a heaviness that can feel lugubrious even in midair though it often seems just right for a lonely walking-if-usually-flying seemingly self-loathing question mark. Mr. Berg takes the character’s complications to heart and Mr. Smith his charm and smile dimmed does the same." Charlize Theron (Mary) Jason Bateman (Ray) Eddie Marsan (Red) Johnny Galecki (Jeremy) Thomas Lennon (Mike) and Atticus Shaffer (Boy at Bus Bench)." though he can look the part Hancock isn’t literally homeless just rootless troubled and bedeviled. He drinks hard swears at children (who curse him in turn) rarely shaves never smiles. Worse he has lousy superhero style with sneakers and shorts (no cape) a grubby watch cap pulled over his forehead and buggy sunglasses that hide his (X-ray?) eyes. His takeoffs and landings are a mess: sloppy and violent they invariably leave a heap of trouble and general rubble in his wake. He’s Pothole Man Train Wreck Man but mainly he’s Seriously Ticked Off Man which given that he’s also a black man in Los Angeles suggests that this superhero story comes with some bite even a few nibbling sharp teeth." which involves Ms. Theron’s character and is so surprising that I heard several grown men loudly gasp. (“No way!”) I was more struck by Ms. Theron an actress who I think is capable of greater depth than most of her performances require even those that try to rub the glamour off her. She helps Mr. Smith enrich the story’s emotional texture which is no small thing since the movie itself starts to falter just when it begins to deepen. That’s too bad because while “Hancock” is far from perfect  —  it feels overly rushed particularly toward its chaotic end  —  it has a raggedness that speaks honestly to the fundamental human fragility that makes the greatest heroes super." “Hancock” makes for one unexpectedly satisfying and kinky addition to Hollywood’s superhero chronicles. Touching and odd laden with genuine twists and grounded by three appealing lead performances it was ably directed by Peter Berg and written by Vy Vincent Ngo and Vince Gilligan. It’s a curious movie for the week of July 4 when the air is traditionally filled with the rockets’ red glare and muscular box office heroics. There’s a real jolt in the choking splenetic exhaust of a disgruntled blockbuster anti-hero especially one played by the affable Mr. Smith who 12 years ago this very week helped save the world in “Independence Day ” a movie that made blowing up the White House into a joke." Tobias Schliessler; edited by Paul Rubell and Colby Parker Jr.; music by John Powell; production designer Neil Spisak; visual effects designer John Dykstra; produced by Akiva Goldsman Michael Mann Will Smith and James Lassiter; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." bruising battles and movie blood." this is now and while it would be a stretch to say that this summertime amusement has much on its mind it does have a little something percolating between its big bangs and gaudy effects. Most of that something isn’t overtly political despite the setup (Super Angry Black Man) a few winking asides and Mr. Berg’s downbeat tendencies. Mr. Smith may be playing a provocative role in a city famous for its troubled race relations but he’s also a megastar and largely shielded from everyday stings which as it happens is also true of his character. Hancock kicks back in a couple of derelict trailers (the Shack of Solitude) instead of a mansion but his pain is existential not material. He suffers at his leisure." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/28/movies/28magi.html
THODA MAGIC" saturated colors with deftly integrated effects and animated flourishes Kunal Kohli’s enjoyable family comedy “Thoda Pyaar Thoda Magic”  (“A Little Love a Little Magic”) has a buoyancy and optimism that trump the predictability of its story." this grace note can’t be beat: with a wave of her hand the angel turns the “H” to a “B” on the Hollywood sign." single-minded businessman is ordered to take care of four children he is responsible for orphaning? God himself (Rishi Kapoor in a white suit with a Nehru collar) sends help: a mischievous angel who bikes to earth on a rainbow to save the day Mary Poppins-style. (And yes Virginia there are  dolphins in heaven.)" Rani Mukherjee (Geeta) Rishi Kapoor (God) and Akshat Chopra (Vashisht)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Kohli and Rohena Gera; director of photography Sudeep Chatterjee; edited by Amitabh Shukla; music by Dhankar-Ehsaan-Loy lyrics by Prasoon Joshi; choreography by Vaibhavi Merchant Pappu & Malu and Geeta Kapoor; art directors Aparna Raina Priya Raghunath and Malini Sharma; produced by Aditya Chopra and Mr. Kohli; released by Yash Raj Films. Running time: 2 hours 25 minutes. This film is not rated." “Thoda” engages some weighty matters: the Indian family and nation building. In a musical number set in a museum the angel (the always charming Rani Mukherjee) makes history come alive showing the kids that India’s past is prelude to its great future. And the film seems to say that future will be built on strong families. When the businessman (a restrained and effective Saif Ali Khan) scuttles a big deal in Los Angeles to defend the children he becomes stronger and more human." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27trum.html
including one in which he calls the verdict “contempt of Congress” a just one because contempt was exactly what he felt. There are also home movies; personal reflections by Christopher and Mitzi; and revealing scenes from postblacklist movies like “Papillon ” “The Sandpiper ” “The Fixer” and “Spartacus” in which Trumbo used his characters as explicit moral and political mouthpieces." and no one who survived it on either side came through untouched by evil.”" producers and studio heads met at the Waldorf-Astoria to draw up the Waldorf Statement which banned the Hollywood Ten from working in movies; henceforth they were pariahs." the blacklisted Hollywood screenwriter in his witty impassioned letters excerpted in the movie." it still bears repeating especially in the post-9/11 climate of fearmongering of Guantánamo of flag pins as gauges of patriotism." based on his play; directors of photography Frank Prinzi Jonathan Furmanski Fred Murphy and Chris Norr; edited by Kurt Engfehr; music by Robert Miller; production designer Stephanie Carroll; produced by Will Battersby Tory Tunnell Alan Klingenstein and David Viola; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films and Red Envelope Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." highly literate man of principle who along with the other members of the Hollywood Ten cited the First Amendment protecting free speech and not the Fifth protecting self-incrimination as his defense." because they could “apply the only lash that really stings — economic reprisal.” Their livelihood denied them the Hollywood Ten were financially ruined and socially ostracized." ” in 1957 for best writing of a motion picture story was awarded to the fictional Robert Rich and went unclaimed. (Trumbo was finally given his award in 1975.) In 1954 he won in the same category for “Roman Holiday ” under the name of a friend the British screenwriter Ian McLellan Hunter who had fronted for him. The Oscar was presented posthumously to Cleo Trumbo in 1993." Trumbo spent 11 months in prison for defying the House Un-American Activities Committee three years earlier by refusing to identify colleagues in the movie business who like him had dabbled with Communism. Trumbo joined the American Communist Party in 1943." who cares what happened way back then?" Trumbo who died in 1976 at age  70 was one of the most successful Hollywood screenwriters of the 1940s with credits that included “Kitty Foyle ” “A Guy Named Joe” and “Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo.” With the blacklist he became the most famous member of what came to be called the Hollywood Ten: writers and directors who had flirted with Communism during the Depression and World War II when the Soviet Union was an ally and the horrors of Stalinism were yet to be revealed." addressed to Christopher is a hilarious high-flown disquisition on masturbation an activity that Trumbo pursued as a youth with terrible guilt and fear of the consequences." ” which Dalton Trumbo’s son Christopher adapted from his own 2003 Off Broadway play of the same name is much richer than its source which originally starred Nathan Lane as Trumbo. It is a portrait of this notoriously cantankerous and combative writer as a noble champion of free speech who was willing to lose everything to defend his principles." the star and a producer of “Spartacus ” and Otto Preminger the director of “Exodus ” overrode the blacklist. The documentary’s biggest lapse is its failure to show exactly how they did it and the risks they took." the blacklist might have been averted. But they didn’t. Fear can make people instant cowards and informers. Resisting it may be the ultimate test of character." Brian Dennehy Michael Douglas Paul Giamatti Nathan Lane Josh Lucas Liam Neeson David Strathairn and Donald Sutherland." Trumbo and his wife Cleo moved with their children to Mexico where he soon exhausted his reserves. He returned to California living as anonymously as possible and resumed screenwriting for low pay using pseudonyms (13 in all)." collected in the 1999 volume “Additional Dialogue ” are delivered as forceful dramatic soliloquies by a battery of distinguished actors including Joan Allen Brian Dennehy Michael Douglas Paul Giamatti Nathan Lane Liam Neeson David Strathairn Josh Lucas and Donald Sutherland." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27razz.html
Tom the Piper’s Son ” Mr. Jacobs’s seminal found-footage opus from 1969 “Razzle Dazzle” blows apart its source material — zooming in out and all around; magnifying the tiniest shapes and shadows; shattering the image flow with  a wild array of cuts wipes fades and superimpositions — and then reassembles the fragments in fresh patterns." in any case be seeing it enchanted by peculiar 3-D effects a trademark Jacobs technique achieved by means of stroboscopic lighting and micro-editing finesse. And there’s little doubt about the motifs in the final passage an assemblage of vintage photographs representing the shapes and faces and horrors of war. Mr. Jacobs uncovers the fear beneath the glee of those whirligig riders captured at the turn of the last century by a film technology that would record 100 years’ worth of terror before heading to its own extinction." “Razzle Dazzle” is also remarkably a thing to stir the soul delivering in its final stretch an astonishing unexpected political jolt that elevates what appeared to be a mere (if marvelous) formal triumph into a shattering confrontation." footage of passengers orbiting on an amusement park ride lends Mr. Jacobs a base-line shape and steady pulse on which to ply his variations.  There’s a purgatorial quality to this eternally twisting scene with its phantom figures doomed to haunt the same circuit. Much of “Razzle Dazzle” feels like a kind of experimental horror film as Mr. Jacobs isolates  gray grimacing faces and pours a deep blood-red  pixelation amid the desolate black and white." Mr. Jacobs is decisively a video maker here. Even more than “Inland Empire ” David Lynch’s encyclopedic survey of low-fi video poetics “Razzle Dazzle” makes no bones about dancing on the grave of celluloid fully embracing the textures tones and rhythms of an electronic as opposed to mechanical motion picture art." inchoate disasters broken limbs Francis Bacon agonies chunks of concrete on an angry lava flow. A huge eruption of angry orange confirmed in my mind the aura of imminent apocalypse. “Razzle Dazzle” is a roiling Rorschach an invitation to perceptual play. You may well see rivers of spilled strawberry milkshake or Casper the Friendly Ghost." ” and boy he isn’t kidding. Subjecting a minute-long film made by Thomas Edison in 1903 to a kaleidoscopic array of digital distortions effects filters and montage techniques Mr. Jacobs one of America’s most esteemed avant-garde filmmakers has orchestrated a scintillating tour de force." ” acknowledging both the character of its content — images of a vanished culture — and its relationship to a nearly obsolete technology. (I’d like to think he’s also winking at another digital spectacular concerned with old-world phenomena: “Jurassic Park.”)" 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27mist.html
with English subtitles) and directed by Catherine Breillat; director of photography Yorgos Arvanitis; edited by Michaël Weill; production designer François-Renaud Labarthe; produced by Jean-François Lepetit; released by IFC Films. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes. This film is not rated." determined to show what others keep hidden — the good the bad the tumescent the fluid — so she can keep puzzling through her ideas. “The Last Mistress” isn’t as graphic as some of her other films notably “Romance ” which features full-frontal and then some. The sex in this film is far from explicit though it features geometric formations that may be better suited for Kama Sutra students or at least the limber. What’s explicit here is ravenous passion and the depiction of desire as a creating destroying force that invades the very flesh. It’s terribly French." even if the ways in which Ms. Breillat frames and puts together scenes tend to be less than surprising. A stubborn individualist she is also a generally unremarkable even on occasion awkward stylist though one sensitive to color. You gasp at her ideas and words not her setups and camera moves. Set amid the rarefied realm of the French aristocracy — Louis-Philippe the last king to rule France sits on the throne — the film has many of the trappings of a conventional costume drama from the rustling gowns to the glowing candelabra. Everything  from the costumes to the cinematography works to advance the story. Everything that is except La Vellini who like Goya’s Maja rocks her world by the public spectacle of her desire." La Vellini rubs hard against the grain. She’s the fly in the ointment the stick in the eye and it’s her howls her spit and her fury that keep everything off kilter disturbing the peace its keepers and the narrative flow. Ms. Breillat reserves her most adoring close-ups for Mr. Aattou a delicate beauty with feminine pillowy lips. (She loves her boys.) But she never denies Ms. Argento who hurtles into her scenes at times literally gobbling up a lot of space. She’s playing a woman whom others deride as a creature — as if she were a beast. In truth La Vellini is a woman of pleasure and Ms. Breillat makes certain her cup runneth over furiously." “Une Vieille Maîtresse” (“an old mistress”) is not as sexy as the new one but fits the story better. La Vellini a Spaniard living in Paris with her decrepit though titled husband Sir Reginald (Nicholas Hawtrey) is already well seasoned when she meets Ryno who has recently returned from licentious doings abroad. The future lovers become aware of each other when a mutual  friend points out La Vellini enjoying some ice cream in a park. Ryno loudly mocks her as “an ugly mutt ” earning him a dark look from the object of his scorn. From the violence with which she began licking her ice cream in his direction  — Ms. Breillat abhors subtlety — he should have known what he was in for." she’s stretched out on a divan and wearing a smile or perhaps a scowl. It’s hard to tell with this woman whose lips restlessly tremble and twist with rage and pleasure. She’s dressed like the supine subject of Goya’s painting “The Clothed Maja ” which like its sister image “The Nude Maja ” was condemned as  indecent by the Spanish Inquisition. To look at the figure on screen writhing like a pampered cat is to understand why those paintings made some observers uneasy." Fu’ad Aït Aattou (Ryno de Marigny) Roxane Mesquida (Hermangarde) Claude Sarraute (the Marquise de Flers) Yolande Moreau (the Comtesse d’Artelles) and Michael Lonsdale (the Vicomte de Prony)." sometimes in bed or the equivalent: a tiger-skin rug a patch of desert sand. Like all of Ms. Breillat’s films it is also an emotional often raw inquiry into troubling cursed desire." followed by rivulets of blood near and decisive death a torrent of words carnality. The story opens on the eve of Ryno’s wedding to a delectable moneyed aristocrat Hermangarde (Roxane Mesquida suitably decorative if scarcely virginal). He’s ready to settle down or maybe just settle. One evening Hermangarde’s grandmother the Marquise de Flers (Claude Sarraute wonderfully sly and twinkling) confronts Ryno about his scandalous reputation. Confessing all he relates the highs and bitter lows of his affair with La Vellini which unfolds as a series of overheated assaultive (rarely tender) encounters between erotic equals. The two are duelists in a continuing war — one monitored by society busybodies humorously played by Yolande Moreau and Michael Lonsdale — perhaps not of their making." because its deepest provocations  — the casting of Asia Argento as La Vellini aside — occur at the level of narrative rather than through its style. Written and directed by Catherine Breillat it relates the unhinged affair between La Vellini and Ryno de Marigny (Fu’ad Aït Aattou a luscious newcomer) a penniless nobleman and libertine somewhat  her junior. Opening  in 1835 and based on a novel by Jules Barbey d’Aurevilly from 1851 the story is cruel and enthralling." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27wall.html
half-forgotten musical with its Jerry Herman lyrics crooned by among others Louis Armstrong is also among Wall-E’s mementos of well us. He is a dented little workhorse who having outlasted his planned obsolescence spends his days in the Sisyphean mechanical labor of gathering and compacting garbage. His name is an acronym for Waste Allocation Load Lifter- Earth Class. But not everything he finds is trash to Wall-E. In the rusty metal hulk where he and the cockroach take shelter from dust storms he keeps a carefully sorted collection of treasures including Zippo lighters nuts and bolts and a Rubik’s Cube." and almost no human figures appear on screen — is a cinematic poem of such wit and beauty that its darker implications may take a while to sink in. The scene is an intricately rendered city bristling with skyscrapers but bereft of any inhabitants apart from a battered industrious robot and his loyal cockroach sidekick. Hazy dust-filtered sunlight illuminates a landscape of eerie post-apocalyptic silence. This is a world without people you might say without animation though it teems with evidence of past life." based on a story by Mr. Stanton and Pete Docter; director of photography camera Jeremy Lasky; director of photography lighting Danielle Feinberg; edited by Stephen Schaffer; music by Thomas Newman; production designer Ralph Eggleston; produced by Jim Morris; released by Walt Disney Pictures and Pixar Animation Studios. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is rated G." it would be about a humble garbageman who falls for a supermodel who also happens to be a top scientist with a knack for marksmanship. (I’m pretty sure I reviewed that a while back but the title escapes me.) Wall-E is a boxy machine of the old school with creaks and clanks and visible rivets his surface pocked with dents and patches of rust. He is steadfast but not always clever or cool. Eve shaped like an elongated egg is as cool as the next iPhone and whisper quiet unless she’s excited in which case she has a tendency to blow things up. She and Wall-E communicate in chirps and beeps that occasionally coalesce into words. Somehow their expressions — of desire irritation indifference devotion and anxiety all arranged in delicate counterpoint —  achieve an otherworldly eloquence." he too is a product of human ingenuity. And the genius of “Wall-E ” which was   directed by the Pixar mainstay Andrew Stanton who wrote the screenplay with Jim Reardon lies in its notion that creativity and self-destruction are sides of the same coin. The human species was driven off its home planet —  Wall-E eventually learns that we did not die out —  by an economy consecrated to the manufacture and consumption of ever more stuff. But some of that stuff turned out to be useful interesting and precious. And some of it may even possess something like a soul." but “Wall-E” surely breaks new ground. It gives us a G-rated computer-generated cartoon vision of our own potential extinction. It’s  not  the only  film lately to engage this somber theme. As the earth heats up the vanishing of humanity has become something of a hot topic a preoccupation shared by directors like Steven Spielberg (“A.I.”) Francis Lawrence (“I Am Legend”) M. Night Shyamalan (“The Happening”) and Werner Herzog. In his recent documentary “Encounters at the End of the World” Mr. Herzog muses that “the human presence on this planet is not really sustainable ” a sentiment that is voiced almost verbatim in the second half of “Wall-E.” When the whimsical techies at Pixar and a moody German auteur are sending out the same message it may be time to pay attention." the audience gleans that in some bygone time a conglomerate called BnL (for “Buy N Large”) filled the earth with megastores and tons of garbage. Eventually the corporation loaded its valued customers onto a space station (captained by Jeff Garlin) where they have evolved into fat lazy leisure addicts serviced by a new generation of specialized machines. One of these a research probe named Eve (all of the robot names are acronyms as well as indicators of theoretical gender) drops to Earth and wins Wall-E’s heart." self-satisfied lecture Mr. Stanton shows his awareness of the contradictions inherent in using the medium of popular cinema to advance a critique of corporate consumer culture. The residents of the space station accustomed to being tended by industrious robots have grown to resemble giant babies with soft faces rounded torsos and stubby weak limbs. Consumer capitalism anticipating every possible need and swaddling its subjects in convenience is an infantilizing force. But as they cruise around on reclining chairs eyes fixed on video screens taking in calories from straws sticking out of giant cups these overgrown space babies also look like moviegoers at a multiplex." Elissa Knight (Eve) Jeff Garlin (Captain) Fred Willard (Shelby Forthright/BnL C.E.O.) Macintalk (Auto) John Ratzenberger (John) Kathy Najimy (Mary) and Sigourney Weaver (Ship’s Computer)." in other words. And like us they’re not all bad. The paradox at the heart of “Wall-E” is that the drive to invent new things and improve the old ones — to buy and sell and make and collect — creates the potential for disaster and also the possible path away from it. Or put another way some of the same impulses that fill the world of “Wall-E” — our world — with junk can also fill it with art." undoubtedly an earnest (though far from simplistic) ecological parable but it is also a disarmingly sweet and simple love story Chaplinesque in its emotional purity. On another level entirely it’s a bit of a sci-fi geek-fest alluding to everything from “2001” and the “Alien” pictures (via a Sigourney Weaver voice cameo) to “Wallace and Gromit: A Grand Day Out.” But the movie it refers to most insistently and overtly is of all things “Hello Dolly! ” a worn videotape that serves as the title character’s instruction manual in matters of choreography and romance." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27tea.html
after several years of intense meditation the Buddhist monk Bodhidharma began to grow sleepy. His goal being spiritual awakening this just wouldn’t do so he removed his eyelids and flung them to the ground. From the spot where they landed grew the first tea leaves." the movie finds an amiable guide to the world of tea and its cultivation in David Lee Hoffman an American importer dedicated to securing the freshest teas in China. Committed as well to buying directly from local farmers Mr. Hoffman  runs smack into China’s notoriously complex bureaucracy leading to comedic scenarios. (How do you say “worm droppings” in Chinese?)" Mr. Blank; edited by Ms. Leibrecht; released by Flower Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 10 minutes. This film is not rated." biography nature ode business story nerd profile  —  sustaining a flexibility of tone that allows for both keen insights into the rapidly evolving Chinese economy and drunken raptures on the ability in one especially prized blend “to taste the mountain.”" ” which is yes a documentary about a beverage. A delicious  documentary as it turns out and one that manages a harmonious blend of themes and subjects in its brisk running time." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27petr.html
Olivia Tracey (Moya Doyle) Heather Juergensen (Medbh Doyle) Max Beesley (Johnny Doyle) Greg Ellis (Tom Ivers) Susan Lynch (Catherine Doyle) and Catherine Farrell (Helen)." based on the play by Joseph O’Connor; director of photography Nancy Schreiber; edited by Dathai Keane; music by Seth Podowitz; production designer Julieann Getman; produced by Ms. Hoffs Ms. Stayden Georganne Aldrich Heller and Alfred Sapse; released by World Wide Motion Pictures Corporation. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." and Da incriminates himself in a video diary the secrets and lies emerge as both unsurprising and uninvolving.  The director Tamar Simon Hoffs never liberates the material from its confined theatricality (the film is based on Joseph O’Connor’s play) and the principals — who are all excellent — continually battle her stilted framing and excessively gloomy lighting. All in all this is a movie best enjoyed with a snoot full and a morbid disposition." ” a soused post-funeral postmortem on a dysfunctional Dublin family the misery seeps from the screen in cold damp waves; by the end you’ll be grabbing for the bottle yourself." Enda (Malcolm McDowell appearing solely in flashback and on home video) now deceased a college librarian and self-regarding poet. Reluctantly reuniting for the mysteriously deserted wake his broken offspring settle in for an evening of booze and bickering: the aimless 20-something daughter (Heather Juergensen); the self-punishing older sister (Susan Lynch); and the prodigal son (Max Beesley) a wounded wastrel emptying most of his emotional baggage on meaningless sex and controlled substances." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27elsa.html
whose “Elsa & Fred” is both a movie about love and a love letter to movies. Meeting cute over a fender bender Elsa (China Zorrilla firing on all cylinders) and Fred (Manuel Alexandre) begin an awkward prickly affair. She’s an inveterate liar of indeterminate vintage; he’s a 78-year-old widower ready for a quiet life. Though appalled by his new squeeze’s carpe diem behavior and contempt for cholesterol Fred is easy meat for a woman whose libidinous preferences once leaned toward male strippers." Manuel Alexandre (Fred) Blanca Portillo (Cuca) Roberto Carnaghi (Gabriel) José Angel Egldo (Paco) and Gonzalo Urtizberea (Alejo)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Carnevale Lily Ann Martin and Marcela Guerty; director of photography Juan Carlos Gómez; edited by Nacho Ruiz Capillas; music by Lito Vitale; art director Satur Idarreta; produced by José Antonio Félez; released by Distrimax Inc and Mitropoulos Films. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." the wrinkly romance (a genre generally ignored by youth-obsessed Hollywood unless the wrinkles belong to Diane Keaton and Jack Nicholson) could become a multiplex staple. Look out for softer popcorn and larger subtitles." “Elsa  & Fred” is best enjoyed as a sampling of Ms. Zorrilla’s combustible energy and still dazzling screen presence. There are also moments of credible intimacy like the ease between Fred and his young doctor as they discuss the physical boundaries of the affair. In movies like this expect medication to deliver the most vital — and least celebrated — supporting performance." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27wick.html
Angela Bettis (the Mother) J. D. Brown (Runt) Damien DeKay (Palmer) Eve Mauro (Jill) Michael Esparza (Ray) Tim Thomerson (Jake) and Eryn Joslyn (Helen)." this super-low-budget shocker by Zach Passero contains passable effects (with a standout brain-sucking sequence) awkwardly employed slow-motion and female nudity galore. It plays like an extended music video for Cinemax After Dark that is too long by 90 minutes. Not even appearances by horror royalty  — Angela Bettis (“May ” “Toolbox Murders”) and Tim Thomerson (“Dollman”)  — can salvage this one." Stephen Osborn; edited by Kevin Ford; music by Alien Jourgensen; production designer Billy Jett; produced by John Carchietta Carl Morano and Mr. Sivertson; released by Fever Dreams. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." ” an inept nasty and absolutely irredeemable entry in the stale torture-porn subgenre of horror that more often than not features bloodthirsty clans residing in the backwoods. The lake serves only as a skinny-dipping site for four vacationing lesbians who eventually reveal themselves as more villainous than the assorted deranged males who follow them to a secluded cabin where at midnight they transform into some sort of cannibal witches. (That this is someone’s idea of female empowerment is by far the most frightening thing about the film besides perhaps the universally atrocious acting.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27want.html
and in this respect and in every other “Wanted” is nothing new. And Mr. Bekmambetov a Russian filmmaker who has earned a cult following with his razzly-dazzly thrillers “Day Watch” and “Night Watch ” certainly proves here that he knows how to use every blunt tool of the bullying trade: flashy effects zippy cuts simulated death walls of sound wheels of steel and in between the bullets and blood a hot mama to make the brother-to-brother man-on-man action less worrisome. This is after all a movie almost entirely organized around the sights and sounds of men piercing one another’s bodies which makes for a whole lot of twitching and spurting." then and for a short stretch a pretty diverting one. The basic story culled from a comic-book series by Mark Millar and J. G. Jones revolves around a pusillanimous cubicle drone named Wesley (James McAvoy going for cheeky and packing new muscle) who at least in the movie has been conceptualized along the same Everyman lines as Edward Norton’s character in “Fight Club.” Both have soul-sucking jobs self-mocking voiceovers and a glamorous comrade in violence who ushers them into thrilling worlds of excitement and life-altering action except that Mr. Norton’s friend is played by Brad Pitt and Mr. McAvoy’s friend is played by Mr. Pitt’s real partner Ms. Jolie which for about a millisecond makes this sound far more interesting than what actually materializes on screen." that’s one way to get the attention of fickle moviegoers particularly if like the director Timur Bekmambetov you’ve got nothing else going for your big Hollywood debut except Ms. Jolie and a couple of ideas recycled from “The Matrix” and “Fight Club.” Mind you Ms. Jolie has been perfectly cast as a super-scary seemingly amoral assassin named (wait for it) Fox. Few American actresses especially those with such pin-skinny arms can make beating a guy to the ground look so easy and yeah man like fun. With her mean smiley-sneer and snug clothes her heels and hieroglyphics she cuts the kind of disciplinarian figure who can bring antsy boys of all ages to their knees or at least into their theater seats." ” its pièce-de-special-effects-résistance and reason for green-lighted being appears in the opening minutes of this noisy ultraviolent shoot-’em-up with Angelina Jolie her many tattoos and some guys. A man has soared onto the roof of a high-rise where he has laid a handful of others to waste. Suddenly the camera cuts to his face as a bullet exits his forehead in slow motion his skin stretching forward as the projectile tears through it going straight for the camera and our already numbed skulls." ” but no one cares. You could call that nihilism but even nihilism requires commitment of a kind and this by contrast is a movie built on indifference. Fox and the rest of the Fraternity  —  headed by Morgan Freeman voice and eyes glazed with boredom  —  initiate Wesley into their killing ways. He in turn discovers their dusty secrets (blah-blah monks and weaving) eyeballs the other guys (Common and Thomas Kretschmann both wasted) and learns how to make a bullet curve through the air a trick that soon loses its wow factor. Mr. Bekmambetov jerks the strings setting his puppets to dancing. Right on cue Mr. McAvoy swaggers and Ms. Jolie smiles even as Mr. Freeman checks his watch beating me to the punch." Derek Haas and Chris Morgan based on a story by Mr. Brandt and Mr. Haas and the comic books by Mark Millar and J. G. Jones; director of photography Mitchell Amundsen; edited by David Brenner; music by Danny Elfman; production designer John Myhre; produced by Marc Platt Jim Lemley Jason Netter and Iain Smith; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." Morgan Freeman (Sloan) Angelina Jolie (Fox) Terence Stamp (Pekwarsky) Thomas Kretschmann (Cross) and Common (the Gunsmith)." boom-boom knuckle sandwiches and exploding heads I wanted to sink into one of those tubs myself (minus the rats scuttling nearby). There’s no denying Mr. Bekmambetov’s energy or enthusiasm: he blows people and stuff up with gusto. But all his visual ideas or at least the memorable ones are borrowed as are the pitifully few thoughts in the script by Michael Brandt Derek Haas and Chris Morgan. Even if the ideas in “The Matrix” didn’t blow your mind or stir memories of college-age woolgathering at least it has ideas and real feeling. There’s something at stake in its world which is why its fusion of skepticism and sincerity worked so well and still does." brief kitchen-counter sex." the air that ripples like water an underground group here called the Fraternity — especially if you’ve seen “The Matrix.” Although Mr. Bekmambetov and his team take plenty of cues from that film they have tried to distinguish their dystopian nightmare by borrowing from even farther afield. To that end the Fraternity practices its murderous skills on pig carcasses (much as Daniel Day-Lewis does in “Gangs of New York”) while bunkered in a sprawling factory (that looks like Hogwarts). I’m pretty sure I saw the fabulous recovery room —  a concrete spa filled with sunken tubs and lighted candles where Fraternity members go for restorative soaks after a hard day of carnage —  in a layout in Vogue." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27gunn.html
“Gunnin’ ” is neither cautionary nor analytical allowing its insights to occur organically and without fancy camera moves. Behind the bone-crunching collisions and impossible jump shots lurk the pitfalls and pressures faced by increasingly young athletes — the ever-changing rankings the circling recruiters the dangling endorsements — but right now these kids are happy with just a ball a team and a crowd. We should all be so lucky." 2006 two dozen of America’s top-ranked high school basketball players converged on Rucker Park in Harlem for an unprecedented event. Regardless of age experience or sneaker-company affiliation these athletes would play for no other reason than love of the game." and the result is “Gunnin’ for That #1 Spot ” an on-the-fly record of a memorable moment in basketball history. Focusing on eight players from a wide variety of socioeconomic backgrounds — like Kevin Love the nephew of Mike Love of the Beach Boys and Donte Greene whose grandfather works as a janitor to support him — the movie travels to hometowns and sketches personal histories. Coaches experts and members of the media all have their say but this disarmingly unaffected rough-hewn film lives and dies on the court itself." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/movies/27aman.html
“Finding Amanda” takes a screeching turn into pathos in a scene  where Amanda’s happy-go-lucky facade suddenly crumbles and her misery and self-loathing pour out. The smidgens of self-awareness that Taylor and Amanda exhibit make their destructive personal choices seem all the more appalling. The misanthrope in you will chortle;  these fools deserve every setback that comes their way and every laugh at their expense." Tom Houghton; edited by Paul Anderson; music by Christopher Tyng; production designer Erich Schultz; produced by Wayne Rice and Richard Heller; released by Magnolia Pictures. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." she chirps. She has even bought a house. In a nasty running joke no one believes Taylor when he introduces himself as Amanda’s uncle. The assumption that he is a pesky john lands him in trouble with security guards and pimps eager to demonstrate their protective gallantry to the pretty lady." profanity and drug-taking." the title character (Brittany Snow) a perky wholesome-looking 20-year-old blonde cheerfully accosts potbellied middle-aged tourists for quickie oral sex as they step out of the elevator. When her sad-sack uncle Taylor Mendon (Matthew Broderick) arrives from Pasadena to beg Amanda to go into rehab (although she insists she doesn’t take drugs except for the occasional tab of Ecstasy) she excuses herself for a few minutes to turn a quick trick with a geezer in a Stetson hat." but sadder and far less energetic. An about-to-be-fired writer for a failing sitcom he is a recovering alcohol drug and gambling addict and congenital liar whose wife Lorraine (Maura Tierney) throws him out after he lies to her about betting at the track. Underneath everything he is a befuddled 43-year-old lost boy who knows right from wrong but is helpless in the throes of his gambling addiction." “Very Bad Things ” in which a bachelor party  takes a tragic turn. That film wasn’t as funny as “Finding Amanda ” because the dialogue sharp as it was lacked the absurdist razor edge of this curdled screwball comedy. Here the characters’ outlandish utterances (especially Amanda’s) will make you gasp." Greg (Peter Facinelli) a selfish tyrant who lives off Amanda cheats on her in her house while she is away and smacks her around when she protests. After one beating she screams “Don’t ever hit me again!” and he furiously retorts “Don’t make me!”" it would perfectly fit Peter Tolan’s viciously funny satire “Finding Amanda.” Set mostly in Sin City it offers a through-the-looking-glass vision of confused Americans losing their already shaky bearings in the world’s gaudiest honky-tonk." Brittany Snow (Amanda) Maura Tierney (Lorraine Mendon) Steve Coogan (Michael Henry) Peter Facinelli (Greg) and Ed Begley Jr. (himself)." he is welcomed like a returning hero. His credit card having been taken away he finances his gambling binge with a check stolen from Lorraine. As he wheedles more money from the casino host (Steve Coogan) his compulsion crushes his common sense." uncomfortably and casually dark. Everyone is for sale even the garishly attired middle-aged bartender at  the Aztec casino who wrongly assumes that Taylor is referring to him when  he asks about finding paid companionship." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/25/movies/25grow.html
whose soft hues match the colored cereal loops that Alby devours at his mother’s house is a post-Freudian fable that wants to be a kind of anti-“Wizard of Oz” for a culture inundated with toys and toons. Directed by David Munro who wrote the screenplay with Xandra Castleton it takes a harder look at the infantilized American male  than might appear on the surface. But how true is its guiding assumption that childhood is paradise?" the insufferable protagonist of “Full Grown Men ” a serious road comedy about arrested development is excruciating enough. But it is hard to imagine why any sane woman would actually marry and have a child with this unemployed 35-year-old cartoonist who has the emotional maturity of a 10-year-old." Elias Guber (Judah Friedlander) a dour chubby special education teacher who is headed for Diggityland to accept an award for his work. Along the way they meet bizarre sometimes sinister variations of Dorothy’s traveling companions on the road to Oz. But only one a gun-toting disgruntled former employee of Diggityland (Alan Cumming) whom they briefly pick up actually enters the car." Frank G. DeMarco; edited by Affonso Gonçalves and Alex Blatt; music by Charlie Campbell; production designer Susan Block; produced by Ms. Castleton Brian Benson and Mr. Munro; released by Emerging Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie parallels Miguel Arteta’s 2000 film “Chuck & Buck ” whose screenwriter Mike White played another young man afflicted with arrested development who drives across the country in the crazy expectation of resuming the homoerotic relationship he enjoyed with his best friend now married when they were boys." he will show Suzanne that he is a responsible breadwinner." Alby has a wife Suzanne (Katie Kreisler) and a little boy Josh with whom he likes to play on the floor as if they were the same age. Eventually Suzanne loses patience and throws her husband out of the house telling him not to come back until he grows up. Alby retreats to the home of his strangely catatonic mother; while there he decides to make a road trip to his childhood mecca Diggityland a Florida theme park that suggests Disney World with another name." the more savagely the grown-up world slaps him down. As Alby and Elias compare shared boyhood pranks what was blissful for Alby turns out to have been torture for Elias whom Alby relentlessly bullied and made the butt of cruel practical jokes." Judah Friedlander (Elias Guber) Alan Cumming (Hitchhiker) Deborah Harry (Beauty) Amy Sedaris (Trina) Joie Lee (Annie) Jerry Grayson (Mr. Tinsman) Katie Kreisler (Suzanne Cutrera) and Benjamin Karpf (Rollie)." a student of Elias with whom Alby intuitively empathizes. But  there are not enough such redemptive moments to make Mr. McGrath’s Alby any less grating a screen presence than one of Jim Carrey’s maniacs. And Alby isn’t even funny." the scariest person Alby encounters on the trip is Trina (Amy Sedaris) a bartender and aspiring circus clown who enlists a group of midgets to beat him up when he can’t pay his bar bill. Deborah Harry has a cameo as a former professional mermaid living a solitary existence in an Airstream trailer and is a sad image of what Alby might become if he doesn’t snap out of his fantasy." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/25/movies/25loui.html
the Mistress and the Tangerine" Mead Hunt and Ken Kobland; edited by Mr. Kobland; released by Art Kaleidoscope Foundation. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes. This film is not rated." the filmmakers Marion Cajori and Amei Wallach attend to her  rambling entrancing ruminations on the archetype of “the runaway girl”; the necessity of silence; and the power of fear and the primacy of memory in her work  —  of the mangled bodies of World War I  veterans of her mother twisting fabrics in a stream of abandonment of dreams." Ms. Bourgeois now 96 is more than the sum of her parts. The uncommonly elegant and evocative portrait “Louise Bourgeois: The Spider the Mistress and the Tangerine” reveals much about this haunting and haunted master while leaving intact what Georges Braque once wrote was the only thing that mattered in art: the thing you cannot explain." the work of Louise Bourgeois effects  a startling synthesis of traditions. In the 1930s Ms. Bourgeois  fell in with the Paris Surrealists and their touch (totemic irrational biomorphic uncanny) can be felt on her sculptures installations and drawings to this day. Other Modernist influences  —  the elemental rigor of Brancusi the archaic vigor of Picasso  — fused in the postwar era with her experiments in unorthodox materials and techniques (fabrics knitting) and disquieting new forms (distorted anatomies giant spiders) in sync with emerging ideas of the body gender and sexuality." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/20/movies/20expi.html
sad offbeat sometimes off-the-beat romance “Expired” is one of those precariously balanced movies that might fall to pieces with a different cast. It’s possible that two actors other than Samantha Morton and Jason Patric might do justice to Cecilia Miniucchi’s story about two badly matched Santa Monica Calif. parking enforcement officers who stumble and grope into a relationship. But it’s hard to think of a better match for the stubborn idiosyncrasies of Ms. Miniucchi’s visual style and worldview than these two." though I’m not sure Ms. Miniucchi means it to be as bad as it comes across. There’s the ghastly flowered wallpaper for starters which seems to cover every inch of the cramped apartment that Claire shares with her silent nearly immobilized invalid mother (Teri Garr who also plays a second less agonizingly painful role).  Douglas Sirk once explained that the reason he filled his melodramas with so many flowers was that people’s homes were tombs. At times the flowered wallpaper in Claire and her mother’s apartment works somewhat like those Sirkean bouquets — giving the junk-store furnishings a touch of the sepulchral — though too often it also feels as if Ms. Miniucchi is simply overindulging in self-conscious kitsch." she has no problem in letting them go. With her high forehead and saucer eyes Ms. Morton tends to look (and very often act) as if she had recently drifted in from a nearby galaxy and has yet to grow fully acclimated to planet Earth. Though her performances are sometimes disappointingly one note her otherworldly quality can work wonderfully well in the right movie (“Minority Report ” for instance). She’s close to perfect here playing an ethereal woman who’s so achingly lonely and so thoroughly bewildered by life (and seemingly untouched by cynicism) that she mistakes a nightmare for a dream. When she opens herself to love it’s as if she were opening a vein." Ms. Miniucchi’s bleak perspective seems more honest and heartfelt than her movie’s eccentric visual style. The claustrophobic story takes place in a series of anonymous urban pockets including the blank-looking streets where Ms. Morton’s character a dreamy meter maid named Claire floats through her workday reluctantly handing out parking tickets.  “I’m one of the most hated people in the world ” she says in soft voice-over by way of introduction. (For a second I thought she was going to say she was a movie reviewer.) From the way her longing loving gaze trails after the world that’s indifferently passing her by it appears that she would be more content passing out daisies." the boorish volcanically violent Jay doesn’t exactly drain Claire empty but he comes close. A tangle of unsavory (and often comical) contradictions by turns affectionate and cruel Jay is the living walking cursing embodiment of every bad boyfriend known to woman (and man). There’s mild comedy in his appearance (he seems to have borrowed his shorts and mustache from “Reno 911!”) and real feeling in his greedy kisses. But mostly he’s terrifying. At times he also feels like a supremely cruel joke that’s been unleashed on poor Claire almost as if Ms. Miniucchi were exacting some kind of payback on her heroine. Actually I think that Mr. Patric just took the role and ran straight to hell." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/20/movies/20bric.html
passed over for a promotion leaves his low-level bureaucratic job and Nazneen desperate to save enough money to return  to Bangladesh starts working as a seamstress at home. Karim (Christopher Simpson) the young man who delivers the clothes for her to sew introduces her to a politicized sense of racial and religious identity and also to adultery." even heart-rending at times and it mostly steers clear of the didacticism and sentimentality its subject matter often invites. But it never takes the full measure of its modest heroine and makes her world a bit too small." many years earlier of her infant son or experiences boredom or frustration with her daily routines these feelings stay far below the surface. Nazneen quotes a saying of her mother’s: Life is to be endured. Her uncomplaining passage from one day to the next bears out the truth of this fatalistic wisdom. But the dramatic crisis in “Brick Lane” arises when quietly and by accident she discovers the limits of her endurance." ” a modest new film directed by Sarah Gavron is a woman for whom modesty is not just a defining character trait but also a moral principle. Nazneen (Tannishtha Chatterjee) who came to England from Bangladesh as a teenager for an arranged marriage moves through her East London neighborhood as if determined to attract as little attention as possible. Pulling her sari tightly around her small frame and delicate face she hurries home with her groceries; once inside her cramped apartment she ministers quietly to the needs of her husband Chanu (Satish Kaushik) and their two daughters." literature’s most famous prisoner of normalcy Nazneen uses reading as a means of escape. Rather than novels she pores over letters from her sister who stayed in their native country and whose life seems to be full of incident intrigue and romance. Even after years in Britain Nazneen whose English is sometimes halting does not regard it as home. When she has sex with Chanu she lies back and thinks of Bangladesh." ” which is based on a subtle and exacting novel by Monica Ali it seems unlikely that anything will change for Nazneen. She seems indeed to be the fixed point in the midst of a series of small predictable fluxes. Her husband  will only grow fatter and more pompous as his grandiose dreams falter. Their daughters — in particular the older one Shahana (Naeema Begum) — will struggle through an adolescence made more awkward by the tension between Bengali Muslim traditions and secular permissive British mores." working from a script by Abi Morgan and Laura Jones veers between understatement and melodrama and seems unable to convey the inner evolution that is the heart of the story. As a result the movie feels familiar rather than revelatory — a collection of ideas about the experience of Muslim immigrant women rather than a series of observations grounded in the experience of a particular woman." ” the literary critic James Wood noted that Ms. Ali’s novel brings some of the canonical concerns of 19th-century European fiction into a modern multicultural social setting. This fusion of an old style with a new reality gives the book its freshness and solidity but it poses some problems for the film." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/20/movies/20smar.html
while making sure that you laugh at Max also make sure you never laugh too hard or for too long. It’s one thing for Max to be funny to be an intermittent impotent foil. But if he’s to carry the day and maybe even a franchise he has to be genuinely heroic. He has to fill up the big screen with action not just laughs and dusty catchphrases. He has to deliver the goods by also throwing a few hard punches." as CONTROL’s resident smooth-groover and Alan Arkin as its hot-tempered boss. Terence Stamp’s somnolent turn as Siegfried an agent for KAOS — an enemy agency — with no notable kinks other than a love of Beethoven only adds a touch of nostalgia for real Terence Stamp performances." the updated movie Max isn’t that different from the television version. Everything looks pricier of course what with the shiny sets filled with blinking screens and busy-looking extras many of whom are on hand only so that they can be blown to smithereens. Max appears somewhat costlier too sleeker as does 99 (leggy pretty harmless Anne Hathaway). A pleasant-looking man whose dark pleading eyes suggest reserves of decency and a deep well of panic Mr. Carell makes for a markedly different presence from Mr. Adams a stand-up comic who delivered all his dialogue like one-liners and seemed two jokes and one unfastened brassiere away from a gig at the Playboy Mansion." “Get Smart” is like all shows in syndication an imperfect time capsule less a reflection of its historical moment than of its commercial imperatives." going through the formulaic paces without wilting despite the exhausting 111-minute run time. The movie is far from terrible: it’s amusing in spots (Bill Murray shows up for an eccentric cameo) and visually painless notably during the nighttime beauty shots of Moscow that show the digital video format off to fine effect." Max was the borscht belt Bond the seemingly inexpert ambiguously ethnic  American operative who starting in 1965 and armed with broad jokes slapstick and a capable female sidekick Agent 99 (Barbara Feldon a cool number) somehow for five seasons managed to come out on top. He was the original revenge of the nerds a goofball answer to all those Yale-schooled spooks." putting an amusing deadpan spin on the blundering CONTROL spy Maxwell Smart or Agent 86 the role originated by Don Adams." he did) but a movie like “Get Smart ” engineered for big laughs and little pain can only lob cotton balls. It flounders whenever it tries to weave the real world into its fantasia partly because it isn’t really about anything other than making money partly because the spy-versus-spy battle doesn’t entertain the way it once did." but neither was the spy game shrouded in cynicism. Secret agents were still glamorous then grist for romance and ripe for parody. But watching Max and company run amok just gave me the creeps. I don’t know about you but I’m sick of bumbling spies." the label a little louder (Improved! Kind Of!) but the stuff inside is pretty much the same as the stuff inside every box of detergent. And in this case the stuff inside consists of exactly what most Hollywood movies based on old sitcoms are made of namely feeble and funny jokes brand actors and enough special effects to give you some bang for your summertime buck." but there’s too much money at stake in a movie like this for reality to intrude. The filmmakers take tiny tinny digs at the vice president and cook up a subplot about yellowcake uranium and a pathetic bit about a guy in a turban on a plane. They even have a president (James Caan) who can’t pronounce nuclear properly and reads “Goodnight Moon” to the kiddies as the country teeters on the brink. None of it sticks." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/20/movies/20kitt.html
“Kit Kittredge: An American Girl” appears poised to incite the kind of box-office frenzy more commonly associated with characters named Hannah and Harry." heart-on-its-sleeve movie is packed with laudable life lessons and Depression-era trivia including the fact that the hobo sign of fish bones means really good garbage (particularly useful on the Upper East Side). But when you consider that a Kit doll complete with book and accessories will currently run you $105 the movie’s insistence on the nobility of the indigent might be a tad more difficult to stomach." her saintly mother (a lovely Julia Ormond) opens their home to a motley collection of boarders who provide the film with a lively core of adult performances and punch lines. Stanley Tucci is especially delightful as a smooth-tongued secretive magician while Joan Cusack always more comfortable in vinegar than sugar struggles a bit as a librarian whose personality leans more toward batty than tart." “Kit Kittredge” is a movie of missing men and lonely women. In Kit’s world the absent father (a familiar theme from girls’ novels including “Little Women” and “A Little Princess”) is an epidemic and the picture makes this the impetus for children’s resourcefulness and emotional development." “Kit Kittredge ” with its all-American ideals and old-fashioned rhythms seems an odd choice for the Canadian director Patricia Rozema. Best known for her sharply modern and feminist take on Jane Austen’s “Mansfield Park ” this director does what she can to showcase female resilience in the context of a story unavoidably more invested in Kit’s color-coordinated ’30s outfits than in the harsh realities of extreme poverty." books dolls and television movies — has gradually won the approval of parents seeking an alternative to the vanity of Barbie and the sexiness of the Bratz. Its commitment to down-home values meticulously researched back stories and be-all-you-can-be girl power has a seductive wholesomeness: alongside the flagship line of historical dolls (excuse me “characters”) your daughter can play in a past where low-rise jeans are as unthinkable as high-rise apartments." Kit pursues amateur sleuthing and hobo rescue with equal vigor locking Ms. Breslin into a relentlessly spunky performance that restricts her considerable range. Less wearing are her closest sidekicks: a very sweet Madison Davenport as Kit’s best friend Ruthie and Zach Mills as Stirling a delicate jug-eared darling who’s sure to be breaking hearts before he breaks his teens." “Kit Kittredge” takes place during the Great Depression in Cincinnati (earnestly played by Toronto) where the jobless are in the streets and the middle classes are in denial. To 9-year-old Kit (little miss Abigail Breslin) however the shambling hobos who haunt her affluent neighborhood have an untapped utility: as subjects for the article she’s determined to have published in The Cincinnati Register." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/20/movies/20guru.html
” his last live-action movie and six since the third “Austin Powers” picture so a bit of reintroduction may be in order. Kids who wonder just who this guy is — and grownups with a merely casual rather than morbidly obsessive interest in pop-culture ephemera — will need some remedial instruction." baring his teeth pushing his head forward and widening his eyes as if to grant uncertain viewers permission to giggle. Sometimes he does this to indicate the character’s attempt at levity — Guru Pitka making a joke at someone else’s expense rather than Mr. Myers making a joke at Guru Pitka’s — but the distinction hardly matters. The delusional narcissism of the Guru who dreams of a spot on “Oprah ” is of a piece with Mr. Myers’s own." they should be told Mr. Myers was without peer in a challenging and intensely competitive pursuit: the manufacture of comical catchphrases that while not especially funny in themselves would call forth peals of knowing laughter when repeated out of context." come to think of it something of an achievement. What is the opposite of a belly laugh? An interesting question in a way and to hear lines like “I think I just made a happy wee-wee” or “I’m making diarrhea noises in my cup” or to watch apprentice gurus attack one another with urine-soaked mops is to grasp the answer. Please don’t misunderstand: I’m not opposed to infantile regressive scatological humor. Indeed I consider myself something of a connoisseur. Or maybe a glutton. So it’s not that I object to the idea of say witnessing elephants copulate on the ice in the middle of a Stanley Cup hockey match or seeing a dwarf sent flying over the same ice by the shock of defibrillator paddles. But it will never be enough simply to do such things. They must be done well." Garth! Touch my monkey! Groovy baby groovy! I’ve got shpilkes in my geneckteckessoink! He had a million of them or at least a half dozen. But to judge from “The Love Guru ” a new feature film directed by Marco Schnabel Mr. Myers a writer and producer as well as the star seems to have lost his touch. The movie’s takeaway catchphrase is “Mariska Hargitay ” which is used by the title character as a fake-Hindi spiritual greeting. This is almost hilarious the first 11 or so times he does it but by the time Guru Pitka (Mr. Myers) says “Mariska Hargitay” to Ms. Hargitay herself it’s somehow less amusing than it should be." Romany Malco (as a hockey star with love trouble) and Jessica Alba as the owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs. A further list — Stephen Colbert! John Oliver of “The Daily Show”! Ben Kingsley! — would only create the misleading impression that there is something worth seeing here. If there is — Did I miss it? Darn! — I’m sure it will show up on YouTube before long. In the meantime talk amongst yourselves." “The Love Guru” is downright antifunny an experience that makes you wonder if you will ever laugh again." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13chri.html
Anna Magnani and Tennessee Williams on the Key West set of “The Rose Tattoo ” in which Mr. Bachardy was an extra. The only parts of the movie that seem extraneous are brief re-enactments of scenes described by Mr. Bachardy." “That’s what an artist would do ” Mr. Bachardy reflects then adds “And that’s what an artist did do.”" now 74 recalls a traumatic experience that sealed their bond: a trip to Morocco to visit the author Paul Bowles during which Mr. Bachardy consumed hashish for the first time. He and  Isherwood experienced a blind terror during which afraid to let go they clung to each other all night in their hotel room." Ralph Q. Smith; musicby Miriam Cutler; production designer Francisco Stohr; produced by JuliaScott Ms. Mascara Mr. Santi and JamesWhite; released by Zeitgeist Films. At theQuad Cinema 34 West 13th Street GreenwichVillage. Running time: 1 hour 30minutes. This film is not rated." he was dismissed or simply ignored by many of his older partner’s famous friends including Hollywood royalty and the expatriate artistic community in Southern California." and the movie develops these dialogues into short animated sequences. During a rocky period in the early 1960s when Mr. Bachardy began pursuing sexual encounters outside the relationship they referred to his behavior as “mousing.” Mr. Isherwood’s anxiety in which he imagined living without a partner was reflected in his novel “A Single Man.”" extremely touching documentary “Chris & Don: A Love Story ” examines the history of this complicated and passionate relationship which ended with Mr. Isherwood’s death in 1986. As Mr. Bachardy remembers the age and class differences —  Isherwood who dropped out of Cambridge came from an upper-crust English background and Mr. Bachardy’s father worked in the aerospace industry — made for a relationship fraught with power imbalances." who met on a Santa Monica beach and became lovers when Mr. Bachardy was 18 but looked several years younger. They spent what passed for a honeymoon in Monument Valley where the director John Ford who was shooting a western and his crew assumed they were father and son." devoted to Mr. Isherwood’s slow decline from prostate cancer is its most wrenching. Mr. Bachardy determined to make  Isherwood’s death “something we were doing together ” chronicled his deterioration executing as many as 9 or 10 drawings a day including one of his corpse." the two men navigated Hollywood society as an openly gay couple withstanding the slings and arrows of homophobes like the actor Joseph Cotten who during a dinner party at David O. Selznick’s house made loud derisive remarks about “half-men.”" Mr. Bachardy who grew up in Los Angeles had assimilated so many of his British mentor’s mannerisms that he had assumed  Isherwood’s British accent and dry precise vocal tone. One talking head observes that Isherwood had “succeeded in cloning himself in some weird way.”" old interviews with  Isherwood home movies of their travels and glamorous social life and commentary by  friends including Leslie Caron and the British filmmaker John Boorman." an ever-attentive father figure noticed Mr. Bachardy’s talent as a draftsman he sent him to art school where he flourished. Had Mr. Bachardy not developed a successful parallel career as a portrait artist (many drawings and paintings of celebrities are shown) the relationship might not have endured." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13beau.html
“Beauty in Trouble” uses the changing moods of water as both metaphor and frame for the infinite adaptability of human emotions." with English subtitles) by Petr Jarchovsky based on a story by Mr. Jarchovsky and Mr. Hrebejk; director of photography Jan Malir; edited by Vladimir Barak; music by Ales Brezina Raduza and Glen Hansard; produced by Ondrej Trojan; released by Menemsha Films. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes. This film is not rated." “Beauty in Trouble” moves from the golden serenity of a Tuscan villa to the powdery chaos of a Czech garage without sacrificing thematic confidence or nuanced performances. As characters slide from sympathetic to despicable in the space of a single scene the filmmaking team of Jan Hrebejk and the screenwriter Petr Jarchovsky (“Up and Down ” “Divided We Fall”) dares us to judge. They know there are times when we all must depend on our own wits and the kindness of strangers." a shrewd mother of two whose home in Prague has been all but destroyed by the 2002 floods. With her husband stealing cars and her temporary lodgings rendered untenable by her loathsome stepfather (an unsettling Jiri Schmitzer) Marcela encounters a possible savior in the form of a significantly older — and wealthier — émigré (Josef Abrham). Now  she must choose: a vineyard in Tuscany or a chop shop in Prague? Genteel lovemaking or violent sexual codependence?" Jana Brejchova (Zdena Hrstkova) Emilia Vasaryova (Liba Cmolikova) Josef Abrham (Evzen Benes) Roman Luknar (Jarda Cmolik) and Jiri Schmitzer (Richard Hrstka)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13winn.html
Jody Shapiro; edited by John Gurdebeke; production designer Rejean Labrie; produced by Mr. Shapiro and Phyllis Laing; released by IFC Films. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." ” Guy Maddin’s odd and touching tribute to his hometown I was tempted to do some further research. A few minutes at Wikipedia or the official Web site of the province of Manitoba would surely clarify some of the curious claims Mr. Maddin the only famous Winnipeg native I can name off the top of my head makes about the city." the map of which reminds him of a woman’s genitals share a tendency to find perversity buried in the banal and the everyday? It’s hard to say for sure but whatever its connection to the actual transitory city Mr. Maddin’s Winnipeg — “My Winnipeg” — is as real as any work of art can be." Ann Savage (Mother) Amy Stewart (Janet Maddin) Louis Negin (Mayor Cornish) Brendan Cade (Cameron Maddin) Wesley Cade (Ross Maddin) and Fred Dunsmore (himself)." ” a witty seven-minute short directed by Dana O’Keefe in which a young man named Alex who lives alone with an ant-infested bookcase dreams of world conquest or at least of visiting Kyrgyzstan. The music is by Rimsky-Korsakov and Mos Def." one working the major streets the other confined to the back alleys? Were some of the streets named after well-known prostitutes and brothel owners? Did horses fleeing a fire in the 1920s actually freeze to death in the river their icebound heads providing props for skaters? Is it true that the city fathers used to sponsor an annual treasure hunt in which first prize was a one-way ticket out of town?" the bond between city and filmmaker is ambivalent and reciprocal. Much as he may dream of taking that one-way rail journey to somewhere else Mr. Maddin can no more spurn Winnipeg than it can disown him. In a thoughtful occasionally excitable voice-over he dutifully tries to explain the place — its riverine topography and wintry climate its civic traditions and architectural landmarks. But his real point — and for admirers of this brilliant and idiosyncratic artist the true source of the movie’s interest — is that Winnipeg explains him." I’d rather not know. Fact-checking “My Winnipeg” would be absurd since the film which combines archival documentary images with freshly shot antique-looking passages is more concerned with lyrical truth than with literal accuracy. And even though I suspect that some of its more outlandish assertions are at least partly grounded in fact Mr. Maddin is engaged less in historical inquiry than in hallucinatory autobiography ruminating on the deep and accidental relationship between a specific place and an individual life." most recently in the feverish “Brand Upon the Brain.” So too have the kinks and twists of history both factual and fantastic (though usually Canadian). His enthusiasm for obsolescent cinematic techniques — silent-film emoting iris lenses shadowy monochrome collagist editing — is at once antiquarian and futuristic a way of exhuming buried possibilities for novelty and speculation. And so unleashing his eye and imagination on the prosaic sad reality of an ordinary North American town he proposes an alternative account that is mysterious heroic and tragic. His Winnipeg is a place where ghosts commingle with regular citizens and may in fact be the true native spirits." played in marvelously melodramatic re-enactments by Ann Savage. Revisiting his childhood home — rooms permeated by the odors of the beauty parlor downstairs which infused  young Guy with  mysterious feminine influences  — he stages a funny and unnerving domestic tableau in which the buried themes of sex need and emotional peril bubble close to the surface." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13wars.html
”  one character says to another in Pere Portabella’s “Warsaw Bridge ” a film from 1990 that begins a weeklong run at the Museum of Modern Art  on Friday. Aren’t we all? For his part Mr. Portabella seems pretty comfortable with his aesthetic of narrative enigma elegant camerawork and attractive people who speak in literary and intellectual riddles." ” Mr. Portabella was for many years associated with Luis Buñuel. “Warsaw Bridge ” which takes place mostly in Barcelona (with a few scenes in Berlin) is not shy about declaring a debt to Buñuelian surrealism. This is especially true in several exquisite musical interludes including one in which the members of an orchestra housed in separate apartments follow their conductor’s gestures on video monitors and another set in a  seragliolike bathhouse." or rather a series of events and conversations organized around a central anecdote. The body of a scuba diver is discovered in a burning forest and while the mystery of his death is explained at the end its resolution is not really the point of “Warsaw Bridge.” If the imagery and scenery suggest later Buñuel the world-weary mood and suave discontinuity have more in common with the recent work of Jean-Luc Godard. Like Mr. Godard Mr. Portabella clings to aesthetic principles — a commitment to difficulty to seriousness to scenes involving fine-boned women with grave expressions and without clothes — that can seem both fragile and complacent." with English subtitles) by Mr. Portabella Carles Santos and Octavi Pellissa; director of photography Tomás Pladevall; edited by Marisa Aguinaga; music by Mr. Santos; art director Pep Duran; produced by Joan Antón Gonzalez; released by Films 59. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art 11 West 53rd Street. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." Jordi Dauder Carme Elies Ona Planas Joseph Maria Pou and Jaime Comas." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13plan.html
but neither did I find much to like in “Blue Planet.” Granted there are dozens of lovely images to behold in this lush 35-millimeter tone (deaf) poem by the filmmaker Franco Piavoli: the fat fall of plump raindrops; a meadow sculptured by wind; workmen silhouetted at dusk; a scrawl of hieroglyphic sunlight along the surface of a pond as if Mother Nature were setting out to one-up the painter Cy Twombly." day flowing to night and back — are complemented by a pervasive tedium in the montage. The movie doesn’t move; it’s a slide show lacking intelligent image-rhyme counterpoint or melodic progression from shot to shot. The postsynched soundtrack an unfortunate habit of Italian cinema is graceless to the point of embarrassment: enter a pair of young lovers in the tall grass making love beside two sexed-up amphibians and cue the heavy breathing." Mr. Piavoli; edited by Giuliana Zamariola; art director Neria Poli; produced by Silvano Agosti; released by Zefirofilm. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." from the perennial wonders of television’s “Nature” to the limpid amazements in the films of Stan Brakhage. But cinema isn’t about the shot; it’s about the shots plural arranged to make meaning and bestow rhythmic pleasure." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13love.html
both real (Barbara Hershey as a former student) and phantasmal (Tovah Feldshuh as a needy widow and Elizabeth Peña as a peculiar Cuban housekeeper) conjured by fate or desire. An hour and a half spent in the melancholy mind of Max is time enough and though Mr. Schütte favors a patient leisurely pace he finds a brisk and touching exit." based on the short stories “The Briefcase ” “Alone” and “Old Love” by Isaac Bashevis Singer; directors of photography Edward Klosinski and Chris Squires; edited by Katja Dringenberg and Renate Merck; music by Henning Lohner; production designer Amanda Ford; produced by Martin Hagemann and Kai Künnemann; released by Kino International. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." Max a declining writer of fiction finds himself invited to give a handful of lectures and readings at  universities. Dreams and life mingle in his imagination and in the film as he journeys to his academic rendezvous." the aging Lothario of “Love Comes Lately ” is very much like the movie itself: doddering and milquetoasty but ultimately disarming. Blending three short stories by the Nobel laureate Isaac Bashevis Singer the filmmaker Jan Schütte may well have made a minor classic for the retired-Jews-of-Miami set. In this admirably grown-up tale with its keen sympathy for autumnal sentiments he has at the least offered mellow counterprogramming to frivolous summer fare." Tovah Feldshuh (Ethel) Barbara Hershey (Rosalie) Rhea Perlman (Reisel) Elizabeth Peña (Esperanza) Caroline Aaron (Rachel Meyerowitz) Brian Doyle-Murray (Boss) and Olivia Thirlby (Sylvia Brokeles)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13kick.html
“Kicking It” is long on soulful commentary and spirited game play but short on surprise and relevance beyond its basic social service function." “Kicking It” follows a half-dozen homeless men from around the globe as they ready for the fourth annual Homeless World Cup in Cape Town.   Introduced and narrated by the actor Colin Farrell who sports a thick brogue and thicker eyebrows and intones the thickest of schmaltz (“from war-torn Afghanistan to the slums of Africa to the streets and fields of Dublin where even as a child I spent many o’ me years kickin’ a football around ...”) the movie has its heart in the right place if not its mind or muscles." a 23-year-old heroin addict from Dublin; Alex a resourceful resident of the Nairobi slums; Jesús from Madrid; Najib a survivor of Taliban terror in Afghanistan; an African-American named Craig; and a displaced Russian named Slava." Neil Barrett; edited by Jeff Werner; music by Charlie Barnett; produced by Ted Leonsis Ms. Koch Jedd Wider and Todd Wider; released by Liberation Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13quid.html
Isaac says “Yes I can have sex”) becomes a perverse tango in which they play at exchanging roles. Isaac acquires a pair of magic shoes that mysteriously restore sensation to his legs and feet and he begins to walk unsteadily. Fiona reacts to his sudden mobility with a mixture of happiness and resentment; she wonders if he has been suffering from “hysterical paralysis” all along. Under Isaac’s tutelage meanwhile Fiona dares to appear in public in a wheelchair." in which she uncovers many conflicting emotional layers has a glow-in-the-dark phosphorescence that is sexy but also scary. In Fiona’s mind the medical paraphernalia of paralysis has an erotic power similar to that of the accoutrements of sadomasochism. An elaborate brace for instance is the ne plus ultra in sexy lingerie." “Quid Pro Quo” decides at the last minute that it has to explain everything. The moment it pulls away from the fantastic it lands with a thud." Isaac Knott (Nick Stahl) is a reporter for a New York public radio station who tells his story over the air. Isaac has been in a wheelchair since age 8 when a car accident that killed his parents also left him disabled. He navigates the city with consummate skill his major complaint being that most cabdrivers  won’t pick him up. This semisurreal movie flashes back several times to the moment of the crash on a nearly empty road bordered by tulip fields." Vera Farmiga (Fiona) and Aimee Mullins (Raine)." Michael McDonough; edited by Lauren Zuckerman and Charles Ireland; music by Mark Mothersbaugh; production designer Roshelle Berliner; produced by Sarah Pillsbury and Midge Sanford; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes." when it resembles a metaphysical Dashiell Hammett-like  yarn minus the hard-boiled argot. One day Isaac receives an anonymous tip from a source who identifies herself as Ancient Chinese Girl informing him of a man who tried to bribe a surgeon to amputate one of his healthy legs." dreams desire and guilt merge in an obsession with physical and emotional paralysis. The first feature written and directed by Carlos Brooks this small intensely acted film is a psychological detective story that suggests a boutique version of David Cronenberg’s “Crash” or David Fincher’s “Fight Club ” but it eventually runs out of courage." Fiona (Vera Farmiga) who works in a museum restoring priceless Chinese artifacts some of which adorn her Manhattan apartment. After he pressures this Veronica Lake-style femme fatale to explain her fascination with paralysis she confesses her overwhelming desire to spend the rest of her life in a wheelchair." Isaac attends a sinister meeting of a support group of able-bodied people who secretly gather to use wheelchairs and crutches; they long to appear disabled in public but are too ashamed to live out their fantasies. To these so-called wannabes being handicapped  is an exalted status and the wheelchair a kind of mobile  throne." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13limi.html
” comments Chongo a former climber whose eyes suggest more than a passing acquaintance with the term. Far above him the Hubers scurry sideways like long-haired spiders navigate tiny pitons and air their fears and sibling rivalries. Sometimes they fall and the camera coyly turns its attention to tumbling rocks leaving us to ponder the marketability of an extreme sports movie without extreme accidents." forward and within “To the Limit” offers vertigo-inducing vistas (including picturesque detours to the Bavarian Alps and Patagonia) daredevil camerawork and a frustrating lack of personal background. (It’s left to the press notes to inform us that Thomas plays in a rock band and that Alexander is a  physicist.) Yet this disorienting dippy documentary makes one thing abundantly clear: for the Hubers the toughest climb may be into their own heads." these gnarly German risk fiends are in Yosemite National Park  trying to break the speed-climbing record for the 3 000-foot face of El Capitan known as the Nose. Regular climbers average three to five days for the ascent; the brothers are aiming for two and a half hours." rope and a serious adrenaline addiction Thomas and Alexander Huber run up rocks the way some of us run up credit cards — rapidly fearlessly and with little regard for consequences." with English subtitles) and directed by Pepe Danquart; director of photography Wolfgang Thaler; edited by Mona Bräuer; music by Christoph Israel and Dorian Cheah; produced by Kirsten Hager Erich Lackner and Mirjam Quinte; released by First Run Features. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13hulk.html
dwelled upon at great length in “Hulk ” is here telescoped into a neat little montage that accompanies the opening titles. Bruce was conducting research for the Army under the supervision of a cigar-smoking general (William Hurt) whose daughter Betty (Liv Tyler) was Bruce’s girlfriend. The experiment went horribly wrong and Bruce escaped to Brazil where he lives with his dog in a hillside slum and works at a soda factory." directed by Louis Leterrier (“The Transporter ” “Transporter 2”) from a script by Zak Penn (“X2 ” “X-Men: The Last Stand”) is called “The Incredible Hulk.” But let’s not get carried away: “The Adequate Hulk” would have been a more suitable title. There are some big thumping fights and a few bright shards of pop-cultural wit but for the most part this movie seems content to aim for the generic mean. If you really need a superhero to tide you over until Hellboy and Batman resurface next month — and honestly do you? really? why? — I guess this big green dude will do." but it also exposes a genetic flaw that makes “The Incredible Hulk” less interesting — clumsier more brutish — than many of its comic-book-derived counterparts. Superhero movies depend not only on virtuosic special effects or action set pieces but also perhaps even more on the psychological drama of existential division. The mild-mannered reporter is also the man of steel; the reclusive millionaire dons mask and cape to fight evil." and Mr. Norton does a credible enough job of conveying how tiresome it must be to shred your shoes and clothes. But without a vivid complex character at the center of the movie even the more inspired bits — Tim Blake Nelson’s tenured mad scientist a climactic battle on the streets of Harlem — feel perfunctory and familiar. A middling superhero movie! I wish I could say that was incredible." based on the Marvel comic book by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby; director of photography Peter Menzies Jr.; edited by John Wright Rick Shaine and Vincent Tabaillon; music by Craig Armstrong; production designer Kirk M. Petruccelli; visual effects supervisor Kurt Williams; produced by Avi Arad Gale Anne Hurd and Kevin Feige; released by Universal Pictures and Marvel Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes." Robert Downey Jr. used the ethical predicaments of Iron Man as the basis for a brilliantly complicated and unpredictable characterization. But the contradictions and continuities between Bruce Banner and the monster he becomes figure surprisingly little in “The Incredible Hulk.” When Betty asks Bruce what the transformation feels like he answers that the Hulk “isn’t me ” and in taking this disavowal at face value the movie sacrifices opportunities for pathos as well as humor." a computer-generated behemoth with torn pants and tousled hair is a slightly improved version of the character created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby 46 years ago though a cameo appearance by Lou Ferrigno the Hulk on the old television series may induce some fond nostalgia for the analog days when a superhero could be impersonated by an actual person. When calm Bruce Banner is played in “The Incredible Hulk ” by Edward Norton who emphasizes the character’s somber cerebral side. To avoid turning green and bursting out of his clothes Bruce must keep his pulse low and Mr. Norton ever the professional is careful not to do anything too exciting." Liv Tyler (Betty Ross) Tim Roth (Emil Blonsky) Tim Blake Nelson (Samuel Sterns) Ty Burrell (Leonard) and William Hurt (General  Ross)." a while later he emerges in the light of day to smash up some government hardware on a Virginia college campus. Though the Hulk’s distended muscles are impressively veined — he looks less rubbery and therefore more credible than his precursor in “Hulk” — the scale and proportion of his body don’t seem quite right. His head is weirdly small and his size in relation to other people and objects appears to fluctuate. Also why is his hair so much darker than Mr. Norton’s?" a scientist who when agitated turns large and green. It was called “Hulk” and it didn’t do very well either with critics or with the legions of comic-book fans expected to sacrifice a portion of their pocket money every summer to keep the movie studios afloat. Now Universal and Marvel every bit as indomitable as their rampaging asparagus-colored intellectual property have given the franchise another try." the military has no trouble finding Bruce’s modest little home. A member of the squad sent to bring him in — the general wants Bruce’s data for further study you see — is a hard case named Blonsky (Tim Roth) who you know will turn out to be the Hulk’s nemesis even before he shoots Bruce’s dog. In the meantime after Bruce’s pulse rate spikes the Hulk is glimpsed through the murk of night-vision goggles and in shadow smoke and soda-pop vapor." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/13/movies/13happ.html
Tak Fujimoto; edited by Conrad Buff; music by James Newton Howard; production designer Jeannine Oppewall; produced by Mr. Shyamalan Sam Mercer and Barry Mendel; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." only that it’s funny dark and weird and involves some nasty payback from the natural world. The story opens on a bustlingly bright New York day with two women sharing a bench in Central Park. One hears something the other doesn’t and before you know it one benchwarmer has slipped a hair stick out of her do and into her own neck. The blood continues to trickle but soon runs into the streets as men and women across the city commit similarly inexplicable acts of self-annihilation with bullets to the head or in a queasy presumably intentional visual echo of Sept. 11 plunges from on high." ” one that will appeal to the doomsday scenarist in every pessimist so it’s a shame he doesn’t know what to do with it other than mow people down. One of his strengths evident in his best film “The Sixth Sense ” and even in misfires like “Lady in the Water ” is that he knows how to withhold enough information — goosing the quiet with well-timed boos and bangs — to keep you asking that crucial storytelling question: What happens next? But here caught up in art-directing all this death he forgets to set up the question from scene to scene. The movie unwinds like a series of ghastly tableaux vivants pasted together with sloppy domestic comedy." Mr. Wahlberg’s Elliot a Philadelphia high-school science teacher heads out of town on a train with his wife Alma (an oddly miscast loony-looking Zooey Deschanel working her big blue peepers like mad) and another teacher Julian (John Leguizamo) who brings along his young daughter Jess (Ashlyn Sanchez). The train conductors soon lose contact with the outside world forcing passengers into the Pennsylvania backwoods. This allows Mr. Shyamalan to focus on his leads (and indulge in witless marital shtick); pick up a couple of crack scene stealers (Frank Collison and Betty Buckley); and frolic in the great outdoors with zippy cameras and special effects. Something wicked this way comes though really they’re  already heeere." committed presence anchors the story giving it a sense of purpose (a reason to care). Unlike Ms. Deschanel who looks mighty surprised to be in this movie or mighty alarmed you hang on to Mr. Wahlberg who smoothly navigates the broad lurching comedy (notably a wonderfully eccentric and comic monologue) as well as the pockets of dread. Mr. Shyamalan’s bag of tricks is awfully familiar — the camera races forward the characters stand locked in place a child’s empty swing sways in the wind eyes widen mouths gape — but it’s time-tested and with the right actors effectual. There is after all real pleasure to be had from watching a magician pull even a mangy rabbit out of a battered top hat." “The Happening ” opened on Friday. A fine craftsman with aspirations to the canon this would-be auteur has in the last few years experienced a sensational fall from critical and commercial grace partly through his own doing — by making bad movies and then even after those movies failed by continuing to feed his ego publicly — and partly through the entertainment media that once they  smell weakness will always bite the hand they  once slathered in drool." Zooey Deschanel (Alma Moore) John Leguizamo (Julian) Betty Buckley (Mrs. Jones) Frank Collison (Nursery Owner) and Ashlyn Sanchez (Jess)." never mind that it turns out to be a divertingly goofy thriller with an animistic bent moments of shivery and twitchy suspense and a solid lead performance from Mark Wahlberg. Much like Mel Gibson and Joaquin Phoenix in “Signs ” which this film resembles in mood effectiveness and flaws Mr. Wahlberg fits into the Shyamalan universe comfortably. He rides the spooky stuff with as much ease as he does the jokes the manufactured sincerity and cornball messages." who’s left the PG-13 world behind presumably to entice that much-coveted demographic the young male bloodsucker. Going graphic has neither hurt nor harmed him though from all the inventive ways he’s found to do away with characters it’s hard not to wonder if he’s not extracting symbolic revenge on the fickle moviegoing public. Whatever the case the opening’s body count works to his foundational purposes creating an uneasy unsettled atmosphere. Mr. Shyamalan’s words consistently fail him as they have in the past. But working again with the cinematographer Tak Fujimoto (a longtime shooter for Jonathan Demme) he creates images — bodies falling trees rustling — that at their most potent speak louder and more eloquently than those words." the image of mass suicides has been drained of its shock and a human calamity is revealed to be an aesthetic choice. Something is happening all right but Mr. Shyamalan who certainly appears to enjoy playing God doesn’t seem to care much. But what is happening exactly? Is it the end of the world a blip on the green screen a Chernobyl rerun Al Gore’s worst nightmare?  Mr. Shyamalan tells us more or less letting the kitty out of the bag early. But here’s the thing about doomsday scenarios: They require an escape hatch or the weight of tragedy. Just knocking off the world because you’re mad at it isn’t enough." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/11/movies/11enco.html
this is very much Werner Herzog’s story of the Antarctic and  not as he intimates right up front a heartfelt tale of “fluffy” penguins an easy swipe at the palatable pleasures of the documentary “March of the Penguins.” Though there are as it happens some penguins here too most memorably a Herzogean   creature that may trouble your dreams." the banker turned bus driver and the female adventurer who for drama and odd entertainment likes to have herself zipped up in a carryall bag.  (She’s her own baggage.) Mr. Herzog opens his mind heart and eyes to all these wayfarers who — despite the persistent strain of melancholy that touches each and every person who appears on camera — seem eerily at peace at the bottom of the world. One reason may be that like Mr. Herzog more than a few evince a deep-felt pessimism about both the present and the future." the casual talk about global warming and other calamities might cast shadows across this bright expanse. But there’s something about Mr. Herzog — including the accidental if now well-practiced comedy that colors even his most dramatic pronouncements — that inevitably keeps his pictures from growing too dark. One reason is beauty which in his hands has a way of keeping the worst at bay; it is after all hard to fully despair in the face of so much of the natural world’s splendors. Another reason I think has to do with Mr. Herzog’s seemingly unshakable faith in human beings who for all their misdeeds at times reach a state of exaltedness. They soar — just like that jellyfish." ” floating in cerulean amid otherworldly creatures like fuzzy-looking clams that languidly snap open and close like fur castanets and an undulating jellyfish with silvery near-transparent tentacles and what looks like a raw steak at its center. I could watch these surreal creatures for hours and from the way he returns to these images you get the sense that so could Mr. Herzog. But there are other sights and sounds to marvel at including  the Weddell seals that loll about indifferently on the surface soaking up rays like fat lazy tourists but once underwater create a symphony of electronic-like calls that one scientist accurately compares to Pink Floyd." fiction and nonfiction “Encounters at the End of the World” itself has the quality of a dream: it’s at once vivid and vague easy to grasp and somehow beyond reach. Its inspiration can be found in his 2005 movie “The Wild Blue Yonder ” a self-described science fiction fantasy (about outer and inner spaces for starters) that mixes fiction with nonfiction. Its most striking nonfiction moments come courtesy of the underwater video images shot in the Antarctic by his friend and sometime composer the guitarist Henry Kaiser of divers swimming in the eerie blue under a shelf of crystal ice. (Mr. Kaiser produced this new movie and with David Lindley did  its plaintive effective string-centric music.)" directed and narrated by Werner Herzog; director of photography Peter Zeitlinger; edited by Joe Bini; music by Henry Kaiser and David Lindley; produced by Mr. Kaiser; released by ThinkFilm. Shown with Matthew Walker’s three-minute  animated film “John and Karen.” At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes. This film is rated G." or as inexorable. In his documentary “Encounters at the End of the World ” this professional madman and restlessly curious filmmaker travels to the blinding white of the Antarctic where he meets melancholic scientists brooding journeymen and various poets of the soul who ensconced in the American headquarters McMurdo Station have traveled so far beyond the familiar coordinates — so far beyond traditional cities suburbs and banal existence — that they might as well be on another planet." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/09/movies/09dere.html
Mr. Jarman was fascinated with the exposure of secret worlds which had everything to do with his challenges to British taboos against homosexuality through what used to be called transgressive art. The self-affirming Broadway anthem “I Am What I Am ” from “La Cage Aux Folles ” encapsulates the fundamental impulse behind his work. He described having public sex as revenge." ” a fragmentary portrait of the British filmmaker painter set designer and writer Derek Jarman is a cinematic scrapbook of the life and times of an iconoclast aesthete and provocateur who died of AIDS in 1994. Assembled by the director Isaac Julien the fragments are clustered around a poetic epistle “Letter to an Angel ” written by Mr. Jarman’s  friend Tilda Swinton and published in The Guardian in 2002." haughty recitation are early anarchic Super 8  films he made home movies excerpts from his features including “Sebastiane ” “Jubilee ” “Caravaggio ” “Edward II” and “Blue ” and a music video he shot with the Pet Shop Boys. As she remembers it the bohemian underground in which they operated was a British version of Andy Warhol’s Factory but with a strong accent on political activism. When in 1986 Mr. Jarman announced that he was HIV-positive he recalls in a 1990 interview that threads through the film he was attacked as a murderer. Film clips show him marching in the streets for gay rights." uninhibited commercially marginal self-expression in the arts. The enemy is what Ms. Swinton calls “the dead hand of good taste.” “Art is now indivisible from the idea of culture culture from heritage heritage from tourism tourism from what I saw emblazoned recently on the window of an American chain store in Glasgow — ‘the art of leisure ’ ” she writes with blistering contempt. As excerpts from Mr. Jarman’s films whiz by a common element is a sense of the actors playing games of dress-up after rummaging through a trunk in the attic." ” which opens a one-week engagement on Monday at the Museum of Modern Art doesn’t try to be a coherent biography. Apart from Ms. Swinton’s digressive occasionally overblown recollection there are no sober talking heads analyzing his place in cinematic history and the British art world. She is shown searching for his ghost on the streets of London and Dungeness in southern England where in his final years he lived in a cottage he thought resembled Dorothy’s home from “The Wizard of Oz” in sight of a nuclear power plant that was the Emerald City." whose first appearance in a Jarman film was in “Caravaggio” in 1986 remembers the two of them as artistic and spiritual comrades in arms in a struggle against the repressive and conservative values in British society during the Thatcher era." Nina Kellgren; edited by Adam Finch; produced by Colin MacCabe and Eliza Mellor; released by Normal Films. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 1 hour 16 minutes. This film is not rated." Mr. Jarman’s insistence on being himself and putting his money where he mouth was Ms. Swinton declares was finally a spiritual calling." ” which so terrified him it remained etched in his consciousness forever. “La Dolce Vita” was another revelation. The first feature film he made “Sebastiane” in 1976 scandalized Britain with its explicit homoeroticism. Mr. Jarman was attracted to Shakespeare’s “Tempest ” which he filmed 1979 because the play in his view is about uncovering a secret world." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06groc.html
a surprise hit in France is the second feature directed by Éric Guirado who prepared for it by filming portraits of traveling tradesmen in southern and central France. For 18 months he focused on mobile grocers in Corsica the Pyrenees and the Alps. As the movie affectionately observes the gruff self-reliant customers some of whom hobble to the van  on canes it has a documentarylike realism. You grow to respect these hardy weather-beaten people who lived their whole lives close to the land." an increasingly frail widowed farmer who trades fresh eggs for staples but begins to forget exactly where the eggs are stored is an endearing old codger who has accepted that the end is near. Ms. Rovère’s Lucienne a haughty self-sufficient woman with a past is softhearted under a prickly exterior and has a wicked deadpan sense of humor. After an accident in which she is knocked to the ground by the hood of the van she reappears on its next visit wearing a metal mixing bowl on her head." perfectly observed details." ” which Mr. Guirado wrote with Florence Vignon captures family dynamics with an acuteness that reveals decades of stored grievances. Antoine can hardly stand to be in the presence of a father who conveys contempt and disappointment in every suspicious gaze. The movie signals that temperamentally father and son are two of a kind. Relations between Antoine and François who is deeply depressed and can’t bring himself to tell his parents that his wife has left him are equally tense. The mother who loves her family tries to keep the peace without rankling anyone." a free-spirited friend visiting from  the city that his attitude begins to soften. Although Claire is spending most of her time taking a correspondence course in hopes of being accepted into college in Spain she enjoys riding around the countryside. After she suggests painting the white van in circus colors and calling it the Flying Grocery the drudgery becomes more of a lark. As Claire and Antoine spend time together their simmering barely acknowledged attraction comes to a sudden boil complicating both their lives." almost despite himself begins to feel a tentative happiness and community spirit. Mr. Cazalé’s subtle performance makes his transformation entirely believable and prevents this cautiously upbeat movie from curdling into a sentimental advertisement for the simple life." and Antoine’s unhappily married older brother François (Stéphan Guérin-Tillié) who stayed by their parents when Antoine fled insists the time has come for Antoine to shoulder some responsibility. While their mother (Jeanne Goupil) has minded the store their father has operated a  van selling produce and staples to the area’s mostly elderly inhabitants." put-upon attitude with which he confronted his superiors in urban restaurants where he held and lost a succession of waiter’s jobs. Brusque and detached he repeatedly offends old folks whom his father had befriended on his rounds. Even when they voice their disgruntlement Antoine doesn’t seem to notice." but it is the last place in the world that Antoine (Nicolas Cazalé) the sullen 30-year-old protagonist of “The Grocer’s Son ” would like to be. In this  French variation of the fable of the prodigal son Antoine reluctantly returns to his rural hometown after 10 years in the  big city  when his father (Daniel Duval) has a heart attack." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06arge.html
magnificent nonsense. Asia Argento stars as Sarah an art restorer who uncorks evil from an ancient relic and inadvertently ushers in the second fall of Rome: riots road rage suicide the spontaneous chucking of infants off bridges and frequent eruptions of cruddy effects and the supernatural bizarre. Pursued by a coven of witches apparently transported from a second-rate goth-pop music video from  1985 Sarah encounters a number of fabulous freaks (zombies psychic lesbians babbling priests) before facing off with Mater Lacrimarum (Moran Atias) the Mother of Tears herself." ” strictly as visual storytelling suffers by comparison with the first and second Mother movies or one of Mr. Argento’s better baroque thrillers like “The Bird With the Crystal Plumage.” But it does something as well as if not better than anything in his oeuvre: it goes all the way. Giddy with gonzo headlong abandon the movie pushes further and further into unhinged camp dementia until it climaxes with an apocalyptic tableau that perfectly summarizes its visionary kitsch and delirious kick." looser and decidedly more bonkers than those eminently bonkers predecessors the new film joins them in a trilogy concerned with a threesome of “Mother” witches. As “Tears” has made its way on the festival circuit certain fans of  classic Argento — they are legion and persnickety — have pooh-poohed it for its clumsiness and seeming amateurism having perhaps forgotten  that its auteur has always been a lousy writer and indifferent director of actors placing all his faith in the picture-making side of things." Udo Kier (Father Johannes) Adam James (Michael Pierce) Coralina Catadi Tassoni (Giselle Mares) Moran Atias (Mater Lacrimarum) Valeria Cavalli (Marta Colussi) Philippe Leroy (Gugliemo De Witt) Daria Nicolodi (Elisa Mandy) and Cristian Solimeo (Detective Marchi)." O Fourth Mother!" who has lately shown herself among the most fearless and talented actors of her generation romps through “Mother” with a curious mix of  ambivalence and duty perfectly suited to the movie’s mad oscillation between lurid farce and unabashed love." Jace Anderson and Adam Gierasch based on a story by Mr. Argento; director of photography Frederic Fasano; edited by Walter Fasano; music by Claudio Simonetti; production designers Francesca Bocca and Valentina Ferroni; produced by Dario Argento and Claudio Argento; released by Myriad Pictures and the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." Ms. Argento’s father marks a sad decline in the talents of a supremely confident craftsman. Nonsense; it may be the most entertaining movie of his career. Not the most disciplined. Far from the scariest. (O.K. not even remotely scary.) And technically not on a par with a sexploitation suavity like “Suspiria” (beware the Mother of Sighs!) his acknowledged 1977  masterpiece or “Inferno ” its pseudo-sequel (behold the Mother of Darkness!) from 1980." awkward vulgar outlandish hysterical inventive revolting flamboyant titillating ridiculous mischievous uproarious cheap priceless tasteless and sublime. And that’s before the evil monkeys and sniggering Japanese harpies start running amok. By the time it gets to the diabolical subterranean soft-core orgies this lunatic B-movie extravaganza has long since defied description and dazzled every irreverent gore-hungry synapse in the brain." an infectious aura of play and pleasure and unembarrassed showmanship from an artist quite happy to amuse himself with scenes of nubile archaeologists being strangled by their own large intestines." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06pand.html
Po conforms very much to familiar animated-movie type. Like Nemo and the rest of his cartoon brethren he needs to embark on the hero’s journey which he does with help from a miscellany of pals voiced by the usual A-  and B-listers. Among those nudging and guiding Po is Master Oogway (Randall Duk Kim) an ancient turtle with a mellifluous voice and long liquid neck   who um invented kung fu and now serves as the spiritual adviser (Yoda)  to an elite squad including a kung fu master the mustachioed red panda  Shifu (Dustin Hoffman) and his students the Furious Five: Tigress (Angelina Jolie) Viper (Lucy Liu) Monkey (Jackie Chan) Crane (David Cross) and Mantis (Seth Rogen)." both computer generated and hand drawn. The main story executed via 3-D animation (all done on computers) and directed by John Stevenson and Mark Osborne fluidly integrates  gorgeous impressionistic flourishes with the kind of hyper-real details one has come to expect from computer-generated imagery: photorealistically  textured stone steps for instance and fur so invitingly tactile you want to run your fingers through it. One of the pleasures of “Kung Fu Panda” is that instead of trying to mimic the entirety of the world as it exists it uses the touch of the real. The character designs may be anatomically correct but they’re cartoons from whisker to tail." a  grab bag of gentle jokes sage lectures helpful lessons and kicky fights. There is none of the self-conscious knowing that characterizes the Pixar factory which makes the whole thing seem either winningly innocent or terribly cynical depending on your mood and worldview. I’ll go with innocent at least on first viewing because while “Kung Fu Panda” is certainly  very safe its underlying sweetness feels more genuine than not. The Ayn Randesque bottom line of Pixar’s “Incredibles” can be difficult to argue with — namely if everybody is special no one is — but the heroic outsider has his own durable appeal particularly if he’s a great big bouncing ball of fat and fuzz." a generously proportioned mound of roly-poly black-and-white fun voiced with gratifying restraint by Jack Black. You know the next turn in the road as well as any Disney-and-Pixar-weaned 7-year-old: Po is different Po has a dream Po has to struggle and so forth. Po also has a loving father naturally (and no mother predictably) a loosey-necked goosey Mr. Ping (James Hong) who runs a noodle shop that he hopes his son will take over one day. Po’s unlikely passion for kung fu intervenes leading him out of the noodle shop and into the metaphoric hot pot whereupon he kicks grunts and groans toward his destiny amid the usual clutter of colorful sidekicks and one nasty foe (Ian McShane grrr)." based on a story by Ethan Reiff and Cyrus Voris; music by Hans Zimmer and John Powell; production designer Raymond Zibach; visual effects supervisor Markus Manninen; produced by Melissa Cobb; released by DreamWorks Animation and Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." the tacky-sounding “Kung Fu Panda” is high concept with a heart. Even better this animated feature from DreamWorks is so consistently diverting and visually arresting that it succeeds in transcending its storybook clichés. The tale has the consistency of baby pablum — it’s nutritious and easy on the gums — but there’s enough beauty and  pictorial wit here from opening to end credits enough feeling for the art and for the freedom of animation that you may not care." what charms the most about “Kung Fu Panda” is that it doesn’t feel as if it’s trying to be a live-action film. It’s an animation through and through starting with the stunningly beautiful opening dream sequence a graphically bold hand-drawn interlude rendered  by James Baxter  that looks like an animated woodblock print with slashes of black and swaths of oxblood red. This opener is so striking and so visually different from most mainstream American animations that it takes a while to settle into the more visually familiar look of the rest of the movie. And while nothing that comes afterward really compares to it a volley of arrows that falls down like red rain and a delicate  swirl of pink petals come delightfully close." Dustin Hoffman (Shifu) Angelina Jolie (Tigress) Ian McShane (Tai Lung) Jackie Chan (Monkey) Seth Rogen (Mantis) Lucy Liu (Viper) David Cross (Crane) Randall Duk Kim (Oogway) James Hong (Mr. Ping) Michael Clarke Duncan (Commander Vachir) and Dan Fogler (Zeng)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06take.html
directed and edited by Sean Baker and Shih-Ching Tsou; written (in Mandarin and English with English subtitles) by Mr. Baker and Ms. Tsou; director of photography Mr. Baker; released by Cavu Pictures. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. This film is not rated." “Take Out” takes no false step as a scrupulous and socially conscious slice of life. Forget “Sex and the City”: the clothes may be tacky and the sneakers soggy but for my money — I’ll tip more I promise! — “Take Out” is the season’s freshest most sympathetic movie about making your way in modern-day Manhattan with a little help from your friends." with nimble attention and fine curiosity a day in the life of an illegal Chinese  immigrant as he darts around Upper Manhattan on a cheap bicycle laden with MSG-soaked delicacies. There’s a lot at stake on this particular day which begins as Ming Ding (Charles Jang) is rudely awakened by a pair of thuggish debt collectors demanding a full $800 payment by night’s end." customer service camaraderie) and Ming Ding’s fate in the field. At the heart of this humble and resourceful little picture is a simple but nuanced drama of the door: the tippers the nontippers the scary dogs the impatient distracted racist or demanding." but it does make it more profitable. The orders fielded by a good-natured woman called Big Sister (the scene-stealing Wang-Thye Lee) come flooding in." Jeng-Hua Yu (Young) Wang-Thye Lee (Big Sister) and Justin Wan (Wei)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06rumba.html
” Jacques Sarasin’s heartfelt ode to Congolese music and its resilient practitioners." with English subtitles; director of photography Remon Fromont; edited by Bernard Josse; produced by Les Productions Faire Bleu; released by First Run Features. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes. This film is not rated." the director uses his eyes but not his voice allowing his subjects to guide the story. In the background the vast expanse of the Congo River flows with a neglected beauty; the country may be falling into ruin but the songs remain the same." known as Wendo the region’s brightest and most enduring star this alternately poignant and playful documentary views his achievements from a context of political oppression and economic deprivation. Now 83 Mr. Kolosoy — a onetime riverboat mechanic and boxer whose first album was recorded in 1948 — is seen enjoying a reunion with former band mates while dodging his wife’s pleas to get a job." but all we do is kill each other ” he tells us while the camera tracks through the misery of the Kinshasa slums their squalor a shocking counterpoint to the effervescence of the music. Whether proclaiming the indifference of politicians or the thrill of infatuation the songs — heavily influenced by the music of Cuban seamen in the 1940s — offer a welcome distraction from poverty and civil war." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06rfk.html
however the film may be more successful even if its maker eventually torpedoes his own argument (garnering points for journalistic integrity if not for dramatic instinct). Finally the most poignant aspect of “RFK Must Die” may be its reminder that once we had a presidential candidate who could quote Camus and Aeschylus. Happier days indeed." Sirhan Sirhan was operating under C.I.A. control — a real-life Manchurian Candidate — the filmmaker Shane O’Sullivan offers re-enactments of the shooting and the recollections of a colorful array of eyewitnesses. Like a dog unleashed in a field full of rabbits he chases one shard of “evidence” after another — a second gunman a girl in a polka-dot dress — without bothering to arrange them in any coherent pattern." the movie combines snippets from Robert F. Kennedy’s speeches with an impressive selection of two-centers including Sirhan’s brother and former C.I.A. operatives. Sadly neither their testimonies nor that of a mysterious audio recording determine whether the assassin was under the influence of Langley or a lethal combination of self-hypnosis and Tom Collinses." directed and edited by Shane O’Sullivan; written by Mr. O’Sullivan based on his book “Who Killed Bobby? The Unsolved Murder of Robert F. Kennedy”; director of photography George Dougherty; music by Pyratek; released by E2 Films. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." ” a conspiracy-addled trudge through the Ambassador Hotel’s most fateful event." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06mong.html
accumulating rich ethnographic detail and enough dramatic intrigue to sustain a viewer’s interest through the slower stretches. While it takes a sympathetic view of  young Genghis Khan — whose name in the West is a synonym for rapacity — it does not force him into conformity with modern sensibilities. His world feels authentically raw and refreshingly archaic and also strangely beautiful." above all his wife Borte (Khulan Chuluun) to whom he is betrothed as a child and to whom he remains loyal in spite of many setbacks and temptations. When she is kidnapped by marauding Merkits Temudgin musters a small army to bring her back a mission that astonishes his friend Jamukha (Honglei Sun). “What Mongol ever went to war for a woman?” he wonders." it is among other things a stubborn defense of old-fashioned grand-scale moviemaking. (It is also an old-style international co-production financed by some fairly new players in world cinema including companies in Kazakhstan and Mongolia.) Without irony or digital effects “Mongol ” the first installment in a planned trilogy tells the story of a solitary man’s rise to a position of great power." as I prefer to think of it “Genghis Khan: The Early Years” — is a big ponderous epic its beautifully composed landscape shots punctuated by thundering hooves and bloody slow-motion battle sequences." Sergey Trofimov and Rogier Stoffers; edited by Zach Staenberg and Valdis Oskarsdottir; music by Tuomas Kantelinen; production designer Dashi Namdakov; stunt choreography by Zhaidarbek Kunguzhinov and Jung Doo Hong; produced by Sergey Selyanov Mr. Bodrov and Anton Melnik; released by Picturehouse. Running time: 2 hours 1 minute." Honglei Sun (Jamukha) Khulan Chuluun (Borte) Odnyam Odsuren (Young Temudgin) Aliya (Oelun) Ba Sen (Esugei) Amadu Mamadakov (Targutai) and Ba Yin (Merchant With Golden Ring)." Temudgin’s blood brother and semicomic sidekick eventually becomes his enemy for reasons that are somewhat obscured in the fog of Mongol custom and legend. But the two of them are nicely matched foils with Jamukha’s levity and braggadocio dispelling some of the sober gloom that gathers around his friend." a young warrior named Temudgin (played by the Japanese actor Tadanobu Asano) from boyhood to the eve of world conquest in 1206 when he would become the Genghis Khan known and feared by millions. There are some gaps in the narrative but the portrait that emerges is of a reformer and a unifier a leader who consolidates rival tribes and factions and who modernizes some of the traditional Mongol ways." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06gett.html
Zooey Deschanel (Kate) Jena Malone (Joely) William Lee Scott (Rid) Nick Offerman (Nick the Potter/Joaquin the Motel Clerk/Dutch the Trumpeter) Maura Tierney (Hal’s Pets) Judy Greer (Better Than Toast) Julio Oscar Mechoso (Sergio Leone) Bill Duke (Liquor Supply) Colin Fickes (Cousin Buddy) and Jsu Garcia (Arlen)." the wild thing who accompanies him on part of the journey is a former middle-school classmate who pounces on him in a Reno hotel room after feeding him Ecstasy. He also meets a group of bohemian potters; a pornographer who calls himself Sergio Leone and films teenagers having sex; a thorny liquor salesman (Bill Duke) who lectures him on self-defense; and some convicted drug dealers who operate a pet store play musical instruments and perform at a day care center as part of their community service." Los Angeles Portland Ore. and Toronto." some sexual content and drug use." but they’re not necessary; Mr. Hynes’s originality speaks for itself." there is a montage sequence in which he imagines a Benetton ad’s worth of possible faces attached to the chatty telephone voice keeping him company. “The Go-Getter” has come up with a new way for potential movie sweethearts to meet cute." the ingenuous 19-year-old protagonist of Martin Hynes’s wispy but appealing film “The Go-Getter ” leads from Eugene Ore. to Reno Nev.; Mojave Calif.; Los Angeles; Ensenada Mexico; and back with many stops along the way. Mercer’s vehicle is a well-traveled Volvo station wagon he impulsively steals at a car wash and drives off into the unknown." Byron Shah; edited by David Birdsell; music by M. Ward; production designer Damon Fortier; produced by Lucy Barzun Donnelly Lori Christopher and Larry Furlong; released by Peace Arch Entertainment. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." Mercer — who enjoys making up stories in which his mother is on far-flung adventures — listens to a recording of a western novel whose words complement the landscape luminously photographed in lightly saturated shades by Byron Shah and the score’s plaintive indie-rock songs many written by M. Ward. If the visual narrative in which scenes blend into one another can be confusing it helps sustains a delicate dreamlike mood that evokes Mercer’s sense of wonder as he interacts with assorted weirdos." who wrote the screenplay seems well aware of the challenge of breathing fresh life into a familiar formula. Much of the dialogue is so quirky it sounds overheard instead of scripted. The performances are correspondingly spontaneous." whose mother died eight months earlier is on the trail of Arlen (Jsu Garcia) his older half-brother whom he hasn’t seen in more than a decade to inform him of their mother’s death. Following clues from one location to the next he discovers that everywhere Arlen has stayed he has left behind wreckage and bad feelings." no-nonsense voice of the car’s owner Kate Sullivan (Zooey Deschanel) who shortly after he leaves Eugene calls him on the cellphone she had left in the car. Kate — who mysteriously knows Mercer’s name — promises not to call the police if he will give her a running account of his adventures. Their playful telephone relationship becomes something deeper after Kate appears in person. But even as a telephone voice Ms. Deschanel conveys a fierce individuality and grit. (Since making the movie Ms. Deschanel and Mr. Ward have formed a musical duo She & Him and released an album “Volume One.”)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06fath.html
the film regularly shifts between the present with the adult Blake confronting death and the past with the younger Blake confronting life. For the most part this oscillation between time frames and emotional registers works well even if Mr. Tucker whose sensitive touch with actors is his greatest strength as a director tends to clutter up the scenes with too much fussy self-conscious camerawork. It’s a pleasure to watch Mr. Firth — a supremely controlled actor who makes each developing fissure visible — show the adult Blake coming to terms with his contradictory feelings letting the love and the hurt pour out of him. If only Mr. Tucker had let the tears flow and kept his whirling dervish of a camera on a much shorter leash." legendary monsters destroyers of women and children alike. One reason may be that monsters are inherently dramatic and cinematically easy: A shaking fist or a smack across a downy cheek can goose up even the flattest scene. One of the nicest surprises here is that Arthur isn’t a monster simply careless sometimes cruel. He routinely calls the younger Blake fathead and blunders into his son’s private life whenever it suits him. He lies and flirts and worst of all routinely and publicly humiliates his wife Kim a monument to connubial patience played by the stellar Juliet Stevenson. It’s no wonder that the adult Blake can’t see his father as just a man — the child never did never could." Mr. Broadbent is a sly puss a nimble  stealer of scenes. He has a great jowly face for comedy as his estimable work with Mike Leigh and other directors attests but there is something about his shrewd eyes that suggests a darting penetrating intelligence. He uses that face and those eyes to very good effect in “When Did You Last See Your Father? ” creating a complex portrait — executed in broad strokes rather than detailed lines — of a needy somewhat desperate man whose bullying ways and boorishness obscure his other qualities particularly from his only increasingly estranged son." one of the few screen actors who make male decency seem sexy plays Blake a successful poet and resentful son. The story adapted from the British author Blake Morrison’s nonfiction best seller of (almost) the same title takes the measure of that resentment which gurgles to the surface when the son learns that his father is dying. Working from David Nicholls’s  screenplay the director Anand Tucker (who made the wonderful “Hilary and Jackie”) approaches the material from the inside out. He  takes us deep inside Blake’s thinking — both in the present and in childhood flashbacks — to show how this sympathetic otherwise temperate man developed such prickly seemingly petty feelings toward his father Arthur who seems perfectly harmless if for no other reason than he’s played by Jim Broadbent." “When Did You Last See Your Father?” is grown-up civilized fare. If that sounds like a compliment it is even though the whole thing might have been improved with a bit of messiness a little vulgarity to leaven its tastefulness and tact. This isn’t a groundbreaking work; just a smartly played story enlivened by drama and spiked with passion the very thing that thinking audiences pine for especially during the summer spectacle season when theaters are clogged with sticky kids’ stuff and television reruns." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06zoha.html
unmistakable sign of cultural maturity." but the taboos that “You Don’t Mess With the Zohan” is unwilling to smash are few indeed. The movie is principally interested in establishing its main character as a new archetype in the annals of Jewish humor. He’s a warrior and also to an extent undreamed of in the combined works of Philip Roth Woody Allen and Howard Stern a sexual hedonist so utterly free of neurosis or inhibition that it’s hard to imagine him and Sigmund Freud occupying the same planet much less the same cultural-religious tradition." but “You Don’t Mess With the Zohan” taps into deeper and more durable sources of American global power in its quest for a plausible end to hostilities. Ancient grievances and festering hatreds are no match for the forces of sex money celebrity and exuberant unapologetic stupidity." and it’s the other part — the job that requires heavy weapons deadly stealth and hand-to-hand combat with a superterrorist called the Phantom (John Turturro) — that drives him into the diaspora. Zohan may have a picture of Moshe Dayan on his bedroom wall but his real idol is Paul Mitchell the American hair-care mogul whose outdated styles Zohan studies as if they were pages of the Talmud. He wants to stop fighting and cut “silky smooth” hair. And so like everyone else with a dream he migrates to New York where he finds an entry-level job at a salon run by a pretty Palestinian named Dalia (Emmanuelle Chriqui)." for Zohan is like hummus: there is an endless supply and no occasion on which it could be judged inappropriate. He is always on the make but Mr. Sandler’s natural sweetness inoculates the character against sleaziness. In his feathery  ’80s haircut and loud half-buttoned shirts Zohan joins a long tradition stretching back from Will Ferrell through Steve Martin to the great Jerry Lewis himself of goofballs who mistake themselves for studs and turn out to be right." and the really filthy words are either invented or foreign." indoor Hacky Sack and filthy-sounding fake-Hebrew and  -Arabic words. But much as it revels in its own infantilism “You Don’t Mess With the Zohan” is also brazenly self-confident in its refusal to pander to the imagined sensitivity of its audience. In this it differs notably from Albert Brooks’s “Looking for Comedy in the Muslim World ” which approached some of the same topics with misplaced thoughtfulness and tact." though he might express his views differently and certainly with a thicker accent.  A highly skilled military operative who specializes in counterterrorism he is basically a less anguished version of the character played by Eric Bana in “Munich.” The brilliant opening sequence places him in a tableau that would bring a tear to Theodor Herzl’s eye. Whether it would be a tear of joy or dismay I will leave to more seasoned polemicists but there is something both appealing and authentic about a vision of the Jewish state on its 60th birthday that emphasizes lithe young bodies frolicking flirting and playing Hacky Sack  on the beach. If you will it it is no dream." John Turturro (Phantom) Emmanuelle Chriqui (Dalia) Nick Swardson (Michael) Lainie Kazan (Gail) Rob Schneider (Salim) Ahmed Ahmed (Waleed) Kevin Nealon (Kevin) Chris Rock (Taxi Driver) Shelley Berman (Zohan’s father) Mariah Carey (herself) and John McEnroe (himself)." Robert Smigel and Judd Apatow; director of photography Michael Barrett; edited by Tom Costain; music by Rupert Gregson-Williams; production designer Perry Andelin Blake; produced by Mr. Sandler and Jack Giarraputo; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." ” either for being too evenhanded or not evenhanded enough in its treatment of Israelis and Palestinians. Did I mention that it’s a comedy? Seriously though the movie’s radical utopian  and perfectly obvious point is that the endless collection and recitation of political grievances is not funny at all and that political strife is a trivial distraction from the things that really matter. There is so much hummus and so little time." Robert Smigel and Adam Sandler (who also stars) “Zohan” has its share of scatology crude sexual humor and queasy homophobia the basic elements from which male-centered Hollywood comedies are constructed these days. There are supporting roles for stand-up comedians (Ahmed Ahmed Nick Swardson) and “Saturday Night Live” veterans (Rob Schneider Kevin Nealon) a few oddball cameos (Shelley Berman Chris Rock) and exquisitely random “as themselves” appearances by John McEnroe and Mariah Carey. Why not? Less amusingly there are also some lumpy computer-assisted special effects an overstuffed plot and a scattering of awkwardly executed gags. But a lot of the crude bodily-function jokes are actually pretty funny not least because they are supplemented by more hummus-based humor than you might have thought possible." as I certainly did that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict presents a singularly unpromising source of laughs. But as Yitzhak Rabin once said enough of blood and tears. He did not go on to propose semen urine shampoo or hummus as substitutes but those are for Mr. Dugan Mr. Smigel Mr. Apatow and Mr. Sandler the substances that come most readily to hand. (So does a made-up but scarily realistic Israeli soft drink called Fizzy-Bubbeleh.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/06/movies/06prom.html
Lawrence Sher; production designer Martin Whist; produced by Jessika Goyer and Steven A. Jones; released by Dimension Films/Third Rail. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes." clean-cut Doug who narrates the story is so sure of  victory that he foolishly makes plans to buy a house and lies to his wife (Jenna Fischer) about winning the competition before it has been decided.  When he’s struck in the head with a bottle after mishandling a group of troublemakers who hang out in the parking lot he overreacts and sprays Mace in one boy’s face." you keep waiting for “The Promotion” to burst out of its shell and allow the characters to play outrageous dirty tricks on  each other. But even when the opportunity presents itself they are too decent to practice that kind of guerrilla warfare." ineffectual comedy follows two sad sacks competing for the job of manager at a new branch of a Chicago grocery chain it pointedly avoids the raucous bad-boy clowning of the typical Everyguy farce. Think of it as a polite tightly muzzled “Clerks.”" who wrote the screenplay for “The Pursuit of Happyness ”  “The Promotion” also emulates the television comedy “The Office” by showing that even the dreariest workplace is a quirky little universe unto itself. It flouts the rules of Hollywood comedy by refusing to make the competition the usual struggle between a naïve straight arrow and a treacherous snake. Both Doug (Seann William Scott) and Richard (John C. Reilly) are reasonably likable youngish men with glaring personality flaws. No matter who wins both seem destined for lives of mediocrity." John C. Reilly (Richard) Jenna Fischer (Jen) Lili Taylor (Laurie) Bobby Cannavale (Dr. Mark Timms) and Fred Armisen (Scott)." a garrulous glad-handing Canadian from a sister store north of the border is married to a Scottish scold (Lili Taylor). A recovering substance abuser he stokes his shaky ego by listening to fatuous motivational tapes and sneaks an occasional joint." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/04/movies/04wedd.html
Donatella Finocchiaro (Bona Gravina) and Sami Frey (Prince di Palagonia)." with English subtitles) and directed by Marco Bellocchio; director of photography Pasquale Mari; edited by Francesca Calvelli; music by Riccardo Giagni; art director Marco Dentici; produced by Mr. Bellocchio and Sergio Pelone; released by New Yorker Films. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." or even farce Mr. Bellocchio mischievously scrambles the tone with suspenseful music funereally elegant scenes and the occasional throb of melodrama. The result is unpredictable and sometimes confounding but the movie is pulled into beguiling coherence by an odd and effective combination of absurdism and sincerity." which mocks both the pretensions of Italy’s cinematic artists — who like to be addressed as “dottore” or “maestro” — and their increasing marginality. Before his own disaffection and a sexual-harassment investigation derail the project Franco had been working on yet another adaptation of “The Betrothed ” Alessandro Manzoni’s 1827 novel which has become a staple both of the Italian school curriculum and of the Italian film industry. He also is haunted by news of the death of a colleague a hack whose untimely demise suggests the only available route to immortality." he is almost always witty. One of his eyebrows tilts a little higher than the other animating his stoical features with a hint of skepticism or perhaps surprise. Mr. Bellocchio the writer and director of “The Wedding Director ” allows him a single smile in the course of the film but like a Buster Keaton hero the actor refuses mirth in part to provoke the audience’s laughter." Mr. Castellitto is discovered by a pair of passive-aggressive Rottweilers. More befuddled than afraid he addresses them in German. That encounter is one of many laugh-out-loud scenes in “The Wedding Director” that seem to be played for maximum glumness." the star of “The Wedding Director ” is not what you would call a comedian. His glowering ferocity is currently on display in “The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian ” in which he plays the principal villain with Shakespearean relish. Over the last decade his anxious melancholy countenance — the difference between mild concern and existential agony can be measured in the angle of his frown — has lent intelligence and gravity to films directed by Jacques Rivette Marco Bellocchio and Mr. Castellitto himself." he has been commissioned by a sinister prince (Sami Frey) to shoot his daughter’s wedding perhaps in the style of Luchino Visconti. Franco promptly falls in love with the daughter (Donatella Finocchiaro) at once the craziest thing he could possibly do and the sanest." who portrayed an anxious intellectual for Mr. Bellocchio in “My Mother’s Smile” (2002) is the perfect vessel for this director’s playful sorrowful sensibility. This time Mr. Castellitto plays Franco a middle-aged filmmaker beset by personal trouble and professional malaise who finds himself in a small town in Sicily. He is recognized by a local wedding videographer — a big fan — who begs Franco to add some artistic touches to his current assignment a standard shot of newlyweds strolling along the beach. Franco obliges by suggesting a stationary camera full-frontal nudity and intimations of suicide." which is directed at sex cinema and nearly everything else that matters in modern Italy. But what keeps the film from curdling into a grumpy aging artist’s complaint about the state of the world is the sense that the cynicism is balanced by and arises from affection. Mr. Bellocchio like Franco may be on the brink of despair when he contemplates his native land and his chosen art form but he can’t help loving them both. And anyone who loves Italian movies — by which I mean anyone with eyes ears and a libido — is likely to be seduced by “The Wedding Director.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/04/movies/04oper.html
Muthana recoiled refused and then in very short order rebelled. Murmuring that these were not his jobs he stalked off and away inspiring alarm among his benefactors." but somehow he managed surviving both his shortcomings and those of his well-meaning patrons. One of the grace notes of this smartly put together documentary which fluidly weaves talking-head interviews with on-the-ground footage is that it implicates everyone including those Americans who thought that with their money and their good intentions they could perform a miracle." serving as her own director of photography stuck close to Muthana even after production wrapped on “Everything Is Illuminated.” Her tenacity is one of the best things about “Operation Filmmaker ” as is her ability to go with Muthana’s increasingly turbulent flow. Money problems visa issues and cultural differences all play a part in what happened next as does Muthana’s upbringing. Slowly in conversational bits and pieces caught on the fly the details of a real Iraqi rather than an idea of an Iraqi come into focus. Used to having a driver Muthana for instance was so habituated to being cared for by other people that he didn’t even know to operate a washing machine: his mother had always taken care of his laundry." at the very least the moviegoing equivalent of a great big helping of cooked vegetables. In 2004 Liev Schreiber a well-regarded stage actor with modest movie credits — he plays the brainwashed son in the remake of “The Manchurian Candidate” — experienced an epiphany while watching the MTV  documentary “True Life: I’m Living in Iraq.” Made by David Schisgall after the American invasion of Iraq “True Life” tells the story of young Americans and Iraqis including a Baghdad film student Muthana Mohmed who seemed anxious to continue his studies. Intrigued Mr. Schreiber —  who was about to direct his first feature film an adaptation of Jonathan Safran Foer’s novel “Everything Is Illuminated” — decided to help." Mr. Schreiber not only hired Muthana — everyone calls him by his first name — to work on “Everything Is Illuminated” as an intern; he also engaged Nina Davenport to make a video documentary about his new Iraqi hire rightly intuiting that this story might lead somewhere interesting. He was righter than he could have imagined." dreams history and cultural assumptions. Although Ms. Davenport pushes the analogy between this modest rescue operation with America’s invasion of Iraq a bit too forcefully she nonetheless makes her point with persuasive touching candor." if you’re a documentary filmmaker you can search years looking for the right subject. At other times the subject will walk right up to your camera which is pretty much what happened with “Operation Filmmaker ” an absorbing story about the best intentions gone terribly and comically awry." sensing that something was up notably Muthana’s dander kept after her riled-up subject tagging and sometimes jogging alongside him with admirable persistence. He made it easy for her at least initially for while he wasn’t keen on working behind the camera he certainly enjoyed being in front of it." or so it appears was that Muthana having been plucked from the ruins of Baghdad would instantly perhaps even gratefully take to this rescue mission. Everything after all was illuminated including the generosity of Mr. Schreiber and one of his producers who personally picked Muthana up at the Prague airport. Mr. Schreiber even pushed Muthana’s luggage cart. Muthana didn’t blink. If anything he looked as if he was accustomed to such service." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/04/movies/04drea.html
“Dreams” recalls the career of a runty young geek who evolved into a world-famous artist  —  and ladies’ man civil rights advocate and from the look of his Xanadu-like Hollywood hideout (aptly nicknamed the Lost Aztec Temple of Mars) a fiercely committed collector and pack rat. Mr. Ellison’s written achievement largely takes second stage to his volcanic verbal attitude of which there’s more than enough to overflow an entire outlandish mini-series." ” the writer Harlan Ellison is variously described by friends and colleagues as “a hurricane ” “performance art ” “an alternately impish and furious 11-year-old boy ” “a cranky old Jew” and most memorably by his buddy Robin Williams as “a skin graft on a leper.”" Wes Dorman; edited by Randall Boyd; music by Richard Thompson; released by Creative Differences Productions and the Kilimanjaro Corporation. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." or the one whose pelvis he broke in a heated meeting  — make of him remains off the record." motormouthed irrepressibly opinionated and indefatigably productive Mr. Ellison now 74 is also of course one of the 20th century’s most celebrated popular writers: author of nearly 2 000 short stories acclaimed TV  episodes  in the 1960s for “The Outer Limits”  (“Demon With a Glass Hand”)  and  “Star Trek”  (“The City on the Edge of Forever”) and  a notoriously lousy screenplay  (“The Oscar”)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/30/movies/30wond.html
the possibility of nuclear annihilation and how developing a doomsday weapon affected the lives of the scientists building it. Death and birth eerily coincided. Most of the scientists who participated in the Manhattan Project were in their 20s and the birth rate at the secret Los Alamos community was unusually high." he says was a “pinprick” compared with what would have happened in a nuclear explosion. One of his first thoughts was  “Thank God that’s not plutonium.”" after “Doctor Atomic” and Oppenheimer is a history of atomic weaponry and the nuclear arms race between the United States and Germany and later the Soviet Union related in a booming narrative voice-over. Devastating vintage film of German and Japanese cities going up in flames reminds you that even before the first atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima millions of civilians died in saturation firebombing. The numbers of casualties cited are staggering." Mr. Else Jon Shenk and Michael Chin; edited by Deborah Hoffmann; music by John Adams; produced by Mr. Else and Bonni Cohen; released by Actual Films. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." Mr. Adams recalls “Doctor Atomic” was to have followed Oppenheimer’s life well into the 1950s. But as the piece evolved it became the story of the last 48 hours through the final countdown before the first atomic bomb was exploded on July 16 1945 in the New Mexico desert." something he clearly doesn’t want to take credit for having accelerated. Throughout the film Mr. Dyson its resident scientific expert effectively translates principles of nuclear physics into layman’s language. He knew Oppenheimer whom he describes as “an operatic figure.”" “Look look again.” The British-born American physicist Freeman Dyson one of the film’s most articulate talking heads explains that science and art express the same urge to “take the watch apart to see how it works.”" Calif." cultured multilingual polymath with owl-like eyes who died in 1967 leaving no memoir is the ghost in the film’s machine. “Wonders Are Many” is Mr. Else’s second film to examine this fascinating chilly figure after his Oscar-nominated 1981 documentary “The Day After Trinity: J. Robert Oppenheimer & the Atomic Bomb.”" ” the lofty operatic collaboration between Mr. Adams  and Mr. Sellars before its world premiere at the San Francisco Opera in October 2005. The opera composed in a postminimalist style portrays the creation of the atomic bomb as a transcendent and demonic fusion of science and art conceived by the physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer the Dr. Faustus-like leader of the secret Manhattan Project." Baudelaire the Bhagavad-Gita and a book on the military uses of atomic energy whose words are sung in what Mr. Adams calls “faux poetry ” the process suggests the artistic equivalent of splitting the atom. It is fascinating to observe Mr. Sellars demonstrating to cast members the exact phrasing and emotional shading for conveying Mr. Adams’s austere but passionate score and to watch the final touches being added to a facsimile of the original test weapon." and as in Buddhism there is no stable anything ” muses the director Peter Sellars as he reflects on the implications of splitting the atom in Jon Else’s enthralling documentary “Wonders Are Many: The Making of Doctor Atomic.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/30/movies/30foot.html
Mary Jane Bostic (Suzie Simmons) Ben Best (Chuck  Wallace) Spencer Moreno (Julio Chavez) Carlos Lopez IV (Henry Harrison) and Jody Hill (Mike McAllister)." Mr.  Hill and Danny McBride; director of photography Brian Mandle; edited by Zene Baker and Jeff Seibenick; production designer Randy Gambill; produced by Jennifer Chikes Erin Gates Mr. Hill and Robbie Hill; released by Paramount Vantage. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes." coupled with an indiscretion involving Suzie’s hand and the private parts of her boss sends Fred on a voyage of uproarious self-delusion in “The Foot Fist Way ” an itsy-bitsy ultra-indie super-silly comedy packing huge laughs and unexpected heart. Shot on the cheap by the director Jody Hill who wrote the pitch-perfect script with Mr. McBride and the actor Ben  Best  — here playing Chuck (the Truck) Wallace a dissolute tae kwon do master and total jerk —  this sleeper hit in the making is sweet and sour in all the right proportions the best thing of its kind since “Napoleon Dynamite.”" provincial narcissist who is always putting his foot in his mouth and absolutely loving how it tastes. By day this goofball guru of a suburban tae kwon do studio teaches his disciples how to bust cinder blocks according to a five-step code of honor (“self-control courtesy perseverance integrity indomitable spirit”). By night he flops on the couch and pretends to care about his wife Suzie (Mary Jane Bostic) and her day at work. Her new job as a dental office assistant apparently entails little more than compiling lists of co-workers “most likely to go on a killing spree” and photocopying her breasts." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/30/movies/30stra.html
raising the stakes with a bloody preview of the  ending before flashing back to the horrors that precede it. But this is no splatter movie: spare suspenseful and brilliantly invested in silence Bryan Bertino’s debut feature unfolds in a slow crescendo of intimidation as a young couple (Liv Tyler and Scott Speedman both terrific) arrive at a country getaway after a friend’s wedding." ” the home-invasion thriller has proved adept at eliciting the fear and dislocation that accompany the violation of our most sacred space." Peter Sova; edited by Kevin Greutert; music by Tomandandy; production designer John D. Kretschmer; produced by Doug Davison Roy Lee and Nathan Kahane; released by Rogue Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." Scott Speedman (James Hoyt) Gemma Ward (Dollface) Kip Weeks (the Man in the Mask) Laura Margolis (Pin-Up Girl) and Glenn Howerton (Mike)." “The Strangers” builds tension with tiny details — a moved cellphone a looping song on the record player — and empathy with victims whose intimacy is affectingly real. Like Nimród Antal’s recent “Vacancy ” this highly effective chiller suggests that a relationship in extremis is the most honest of all." the pair are interrupted by a sinister threesome whose identities and motivations are concealed. Alternately innocent and threatening the intruders bang on the door and manifest as masked blurred shapes behind the unwitting lovers. But even as the campaign of terror escalates the movie remains levelheaded smartly maintaining its commitment to tingling creepiness over bludgeoning horror." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/30/movies/30bigg.html
and once became so frustrated that he attempted suicide. His declaration that he can’t bear the idea of not being a star is the film’s saddest moment." the movie suggests are hazy to the point of being arbitrary. Pharmaceutical enhancement extends even to the sedate world of classical music in which musicians susceptible to stage fright consume beta blockers to keep them calm." a power lifter who is the smallest of the three (and has written television segments for World Wrestling Entertainment) used to take anabolic steroids but unlike his siblings has sworn them off. His older brother Mike  Bell nicknamed Mad Dog who as an overweight boy was tauntingly labeled Pugsley took up weight lifting and became captain of the high school football team. In college when he discovered  that he was no longer his team’s biggest and strongest  player he gave up football for wrestling." and a San Francisco AIDS patient who was wasting away until he began taking steroids. The movie doubts the football star Lyle Alzado’s assertion that the brain tumor from which he died in 1992 at  43 was caused by steroids. Although the movie doesn’t defend steroid use neither does it go on the attack." Alexander Buono and Tamsin Rawady; director of photography Mr. Buono; edited by Brian Singbiel; music by Dave Porter; produced by Mr. Buono Ms. Rawady and Jim Czarnecki; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. This film is not rated." STRONGER FASTER*" “Bigger Stronger Faster* ” seems content to be an entertaining exploration of his and his two brothers’ use of anabolic steroids it turns a corner and plunges into deeper waters. It happens when Mr. Bell who narrates the film in the jocular first-person style of Michael Moore or Morgan Spurlock reflects on steroid use as a metaphor for modern American life. Are steroids un-American as Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. is heard to say? Or are they as American as apple pie?" the spectacularly muscular superhero is an irresistible role model. What shy youngster confronted with Superman doesn’t fantasize about changing into a skintight blue suit and transforming into the Man of Steel? The movie shows the evolution of the G.I. Joe action figure from a fit soldier into a mountainous V-shaped hulk an increasingly achievable ideal thanks to steroids." several experts insist. A hilarious excerpt from a 1994 television movie starring Ben Affleck as a steroid-using high school football player gone berserk is compared to the marijuana scare movie “Reefer Madness.”" teachers and the news media that winning is everything with the increasingly quaint moral injunctions to play fair exercise good sportsmanship and do the right thing? If your childhood idols are preening supermen like Hulk Hogan and Arnold Schwarzenegger who preached clean living but revealed their own reliance on steroids which path are you likely to follow?" Los Angeles and Pasadena Calif." the film suggests deception is more the rule than the exception. You have to take on faith the claims of the unregulated food supplement industry in which a pinch of this and a pinch of that is often added to useless filler. We learn that in fitness industry advertising before and after pictures are often shot on the same day then doctored." Stronger Faster*” methodically examines the history of performance enhancement in sports concentrating on the years since the mid-1950s when a physician for the United States weight lifting team observed Soviet athletes being given injections. Almost immediately the American pharmaceutical industry began work on developing an oral anabolic steroid Dianabol for American athletes." who growing up in Poughkeepsie N.Y. took up weight lifting and strength training to help overcome feelings of inadequacy because of a family tendency toward obesity." Stronger Faster*” left me convinced that the steroid scandals will abate as the drugs are reluctantly accepted as inevitable products of  a continuing revolution in biotechnology. Replaceable body parts plastic surgery anti-depressants Viagra and steroids are just a few of the technological advancements in a never-ending drive to make the species superhuman." which cost him his 1988 Olympic 100-meter title: Everybody does it." Mark  Bell (nicknamed Smelly) grew up with a learning disability but developed self-esteem as a power lifter. He gave up pursuing a career as a pro wrestler after marrying and becoming a father. But he continues to take steroids (to his wife’s chagrin) and enter weight lifting exhibitions." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/30/movies/30unkn.html
nostalgic crowd pleaser “Cinema Paradiso” (1988) which established him as a master entertainer in the post-Fellini school of emotionally overwrought realism. “Malèna” (2000) was a succulent ode to the charms of Monica Bellucci presented by the movie as the juiciest Italian export since Sophia Loren." “The Unknown Woman ” keeps you glued to the screen despite your increasingly nagging doubts about its integrity. Just under two hours sumptuously photographed in noirish shades and slathered in spine-tingling music by Ennio Morricone it twists every which way to sustain suspense until the final frame." as written doesn’t add up psychologically Ms. Rappoport still makes this ruthless scary woman on an unidentified mission mostly sympathetic. That’s no mean feat given the brutal lessons in survival she imposes on the little girl and the attempted homicides she commits in a desperate quest to find out what she has to know." retaliation and greed with teasing peephole glimpses of prostitutes being tortured “The Unknown Woman” licks its lips at every turn. One scene shows the film’s Ukrainian anti-heroine Irena (Xenia Rappoport) frantically shoveling through a garbage dump to unearth a severed head." with English subtitles) and directed by Giuseppe Tornatore; director of photography Fabio Zamarion; edited by Massimo Quaglia; music by Ennio Morricone; art director Tonino Zera; produced by Laura Fattori; released by Outsider Pictures and Medusa film. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes. This film is not rated." whose arms are bound to her sides to the floor and training her to stumble to her feet. These are interwoven with flashbacks of Irena as an enslaved prostitute resisting her former pimp and slave master Mold (Michele Placido) and being slapped around. A sadist with a glistening shaved head and a fiendish gleam in his eye Mold is a clichéd Eastern European goon. In one of the film’s many anything-for-a-shock moments he and a partner dressed in identical Santa suits attack Irena on the street and nearly beat her to death." ” as Irena teaches Thea (Clara Dossena) a frightened girl in her care to fight back against  her elementary-school persecutors. The adopted daughter of a wealthy Italian couple who make jewelry the girl has a mysterious ailment that renders her unable to stand up after falling down." in a blond wig and white mask (an echo of “Eyes Wide Shut”) and dressed only in underwear and spiked heels joins other prostitutes to audition for a client seen only as a peeping eye. The movie abruptly cuts from the recent past to the present in a northern Italian city where Irena now a drably outfitted brunette with large haunted eyes finds a job as a janitor in an upscale apartment building. The residence is inhabited by an unhappily married couple the Adachers (Pierfrancesco Favino and Claudia Gerini) and their daughter Thea. For all of Irena’s protestations about needing a job she produces a wad of cash to rent the apartment across the street the better to spy on the family." Irena surreptitiously scours the place searching for a mysterious something. She also develops an intense seesawing relationship with Thea whom she alternately bullies and coddles." and through him meets the family’s garrulous live-in maid Gina (Piera Degli Esposti). No sooner are they pals than Irena contrives a near-fatal accident in which Gina tumbles down the building’s spiral staircase." Michele Placido (Mold) Claudia Gerini (Valeria Adacher) Pierfrancesco Favino (Donato Adacher) Clara Dossena (Thea Adacher) Margherita Buy (Irena’s Lawyer) Piera Degli Esposti (Gina) and Alessandro Haber (Doorman)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/30/movies/30stuc.html
Mena Suvari (Brandi) Russell Hornsby (Rashid) Rukiya Bernard (Tanya) Carolyn Purdy-Gordon (Petersen) and Lionel Mark Smith (Sam)." based on a story by Mr. Gordon; director of photography Denis Maloney; edited by Andy Horvitch; music by Bobby Johnston; production designer Craig Lathrop; produced by Mr. Gordon Christian Arnold-Beutel Robert Katz Jay Firestone and Ken Gord; released by ThinkFilm. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes." just people under extreme stress succumbing to their worst instincts in Stuart Gordon’s grim expert little thriller “Stuck.” Mr. Gordon has enjoyed a cult following since his 1985 horror hit “Re-Animator.” And “Stuck ” while not strictly a horror film is steeped in gore and carries a seam of mocking gallows humor as relentless as that of “Sweeney Todd.”" based on a story by Mr. Gordon goes out of its way to portray ordinary people at the mercy of sadistic bureaucrats who secretly relish the power they wield. A scene in an employment agency where Tom is told after waiting for hours that there is no record of him in the computer is enough to make you scream in frustration. Carolyn Purdy-Gordon playing a snippy supervisor in the nursing home is a scary contemporary Big Nurse." gore nudity and sexual situations." “Stuck” is exceptional because its characters feel like real people plunged into a disorienting situation in which they behave like monsters. Brandi who can’t bear to face what she has done goes berserk and blames Tom for her troubles. Her smooth-talking boyfriend Rashid (Russell Hornsby) to whom she turns for help is a two-timing drug dealer and thug." a wonderful actor spends the better part of the movie howling and moaning as Tom tries to force himself through the windshield into the front seat and escape. For Ms. Suvari who since playing a high school vixen in “American Beauty”  has found her niche as a millennial Linda Blair with good taste in sordid material “Stuck” is the latest small nasty triumph." Brandi (Mena Suvari) a hard-working  nursing home employee is high on booze and pills after a hellish day at work and a night of clubbing. Seeing her future in jeopardy Brandi panics drives home and locks the car in her garage leaving the barely conscious Tom still lodged in the windshield while she decides what to do." ” this largely two-character nightmare unfolds in the hellish tenderloin of Providence R.I. and its outskirts. Tom Bardo (Stephen Rea) like the title character of “Edmond ” is a white-collar victim of downsizing brutally evicted from his shabby apartment who finds himself alone in the middle of the night on a park bench. While pushing a shopping cart donated by a friendly homeless man on the way to a shelter he is struck by a car. Tossed onto the hood Tom crashes through the windshield where he remains stuck and near death." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/30/movies/30sava.html
based on the book by Natalie Robins and Steven M. L. Aronson; director of photography Juanmi Azpiroz; edited by Mr. Kalin John F. Lyons and Enara Goicoetxea; music by Fernando Vélazquez; production designer Victor Molero; produced by Iker Monfort Katie Rournel Pamela Koffler and Christine Vachon; released by IFC Films. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." to be sure but “Savage Grace” doesn’t seem quite sure of how to communicate its own fascination with such doings whether to convey shock envy pity or bemusement. Proust might have known what to do with the Baekelands but Mr. Kalin and Mr. Rodman don’t make much more of them than the mess they apparently already were." Ms. Moore presents a series of poses phrases and disjointed emotions. The intriguingly epicene Mr. Redmayne is something of a cipher in the film which is fine when Tony functions as the spectator and interpreter of parental melodrama. But by the time his own pathology comes to the foreground his actions are less tragic than weird and mystifying." Stephen Dillane (Brooks Baekeland) Eddie Redmayne (Antony Baekeland) Elena Anaya (Blanca) Unax Ugalde (Black Jake) Belén Rueda (Pilar Durán) and Hugh Dancy (Seth)." perhaps oppressed by a need to obey the chronology of the story fails to infuse it with enough dramatic momentum or psychological gravity. Everything and everyone in “Savage Grace” looks utterly gorgeous — Ms. Moore even as she is coming undone the tastefully appointed rooms she inhabits the period-perfect clothes she wears — but the décor rather than being the vehicle of high feeling in the camp-melodrama tradition to which the film aspires suffocates and blurs every interesting emotion." “Savage Grace” follows the true appalling story of Tony and his parents played by Stephen Dillane and Julianne Moore. Brooks Baekeland heir to a plastics fortune (his grandfather invented Bakelite) is frustrated by his own lack of ambition and less than kind to his wife Barbara. For her part Barbara is impulsive and also somewhat pretentious striving to jam herself into social niches where she won’t comfortably fit. Greeting a literary scholar who has come for lunch she asks: “Was Proust truly a homosexual? Qu’est-ce que tu penses?”" ”  Tom Kalin’s long-awaited second feature (after “Swoon”) swoons through a number of lovely storied places on its way to a sad and sordid end. Narrated by Tony Baekeland (played in young adulthood by Eddie Redmayne) it begins in the post-World War II Manhattan of late-night dinners at the Stork Club and moves on to Paris in the ’50s and then to Spain (Cadaqués and Majorca to be precise) in the late 1960s and London after that." whose volatile personality is at the heart of the story. She is we infer both victim and provocateur in her marriage suffering from Brooks’s coldness even as she goes out of her way to inflame his contempt. Her relations with Tony range from neglectful to needy to downright monstrous." like so many others in Mr. Rodman’s script is written and delivered with an arch brittle self-consciousness that becomes oppressive over time. While it’s likely that the diction and phrasing of the dialogue approximates the idioms of rich expatriates during the decades in question the characters still seem vague stilted and unreal." incest and murder never rises above the level of prurience. Even as it tries to be suave and nonjudgmental “Savage Grace” has some of the breathless salaciousness of Barbara’s question about Proust. It lays out the facts of the case with the false nonchalance of a seasoned gossip professing not to be shocked by anything even as it expects you to be." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/30/movies/30sex.html
in the fantasy that all you needed to make it through the rough patches were good friends and throwdown heels. That was a beautiful lie as the show acknowledged in its gently melancholic return in the wake of Sept. 11. Back in Season 3 Carrie asked “Are we getting wiser or just older?” The ideal of course is to do both. There is something depressingly stunted about this movie; something desperate too. It isn’t that Carrie has grown older or overly familiar. It’s that awash in materialism and narcissism a cloth flower pinned to her dress where cool chicks wear their Obama buttons this It Girl has become totally Ick." metaphoric and literal (as in her spectacularly horrible trip during her catwalk promenade); they were crucial to the show’s appeal softening its hard brittle edges. Then in her mid-30s Carrie was one of New York’s most fearless of the zipless It Girls able to leap tall men in a single bound without batting a single mascaraed eyelash but as the show’s nifty opening credit sequence reminded you episode after episode she wasn’t above getting muck on her tutu. Her vulnerability — and that of her girlfriends — was the badly kept secret of the show the glue holding together the froufrou the lunches those absolutely fabulous and ghastly clothes and all that muscly man bait." ” but a little decent writing would have gone even further. A dumpy big-screen makeover of that much-adored small-screen delight the movie was written and directed by Michael Patrick King one of the guiding lights and bright wits of the original series based on Candace Bushnell’s newspaper columns and subsequent book. Once again Sarah Jessica Parker has stepped into the dizzyingly high heels of Carrie Bradshaw that postmodern Lorelei Lee — a hardly working New York writer with a passion for men and Manolos — but this time she’s taken a terrible tumble." John Thomas; edited by Michael Berenbaum; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer Jeremy Conway; produced by Mr. King Sarah Jessica Parker Darren Star and John Melfi; released by New Line Cinema.  Running time: 2 hours 22 minutes." as are kind of Carrie’s three girlfriends Miranda (Cynthia Nixon) Charlotte (Kristin Davis) and Samantha (Kim Cattrall) all tricked out with their customary accessories (men children handbags). Also back and in and out of Carrie’s bed is Mr. Big (Chris Noth) the longtime lover and habitual heartbreaker with whom she had (hallelujah) reunited during the show’s bitter and sweet finale four  years ago. Written by Mr. King that episode opened with Carrie wandering Paris in a funk and then stumbling into bliss by literally falling to the ground with Big. At once melancholic and defiantly hopeful it was the kind of rueful happy ending that didn’t make you choke on your own tears." if not in the way that the sex-addled Samantha might assume. On television and in tasty 30-minute bites the show “Sex and the City” managed to entertain and sometimes even enthrall with self-consciously glib morality stories about love and desire in the modern world. Everything scaled nicely to television’s modest dimensions from Ms. Parker’s Cubistic face to Patricia Field’s costumes. Kooky and at times insanely unflattering the clothes caught your eye instantly directing your attention to the itty-bitty figures exactly what they were supposed to do. But those same loud outfits mugging faces and picayune dramas just don’t translate when blown up on a movie screen which makes all that small-screen stuff seem even punier." at least not good ones. On opening all the peas are in their designer pods from Carrie and Big cooing in his swank New York digs to Samantha and her boy toy Smith (Jason Lewis) sunning in a seaside Los Angeles perch. Charlotte and her husband Harry (Evan Handler) are nesting in Manhattan; Miranda and her husband Steve (David Eigenberg) are bunking in Brooklyn. All is right in this carefree world until Big casually asks Carrie if she would like to get married a question that leads to the usual luncheon postmortem (oh my gawd he proposed) and then the usual rom-com  clothing montage and a staggering number of product placements. (Louis Vuitton co-stars.)" no small thing in the pop culture annals. That should have been enough or at least plenty for all concerned but Ms. Parker apparently felt compelled to go big screen making good on a project that had started to come together in 2004 only to fall apart over money issues and Ms. Cattrall’s reluctance to climb aboard. I wish Ms. Parker had let that bee in her bonnet go silent because the movie that she and Mr. King have come up with is the pits a vulgar shrill deeply shallow — and at 2 hours and 22 turgid minutes overlong — addendum to a show that had over the years evolved and expanded in surprising ways." and she licks her wounds down Mexico way accompanied by her amazingly accessible gal pals. Jokes about Montezuma’s revenge ensue (really) along with hard laughter and free-flowing tears and yet more clothes (and clothing montages) and jokes and jokes most of them flatter than Carrie’s steely six-pack. Unlike the show which allowed the men to emerge occasionally from the sidelines with lines of actual dialogue the male characters in the movie stand idly by either smiling or stripping reduced to playing sock puppets in a Punch-free Judy and Judy (times two) show. I’m all for the female gaze but gee it’s also nice to talk — and listen — to men too." Kim Cattrall (Samantha Jones) Kristin Davis (Charlotte York) Cynthia Nixon (Miranda Hobbes) David Eigenberg (Steve Brady) Evan Handler (Harry) Jason Lewis (Smith Jerrod) Lynn Cohen (Magda) Mario Cantone (Anthony Marentino) Willie Garson (Stanford Blatch) Jennifer Hudson (Louise) Candice Bergen (Enid Frick) and Chris Noth (Mr. Big)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/28/movies/28mukh.html
and the 10-year-old Orked (Sharifah Aryana Syed Zainal Rashid) a multilingual tomboy more interested in playing soccer than brides-and-grooms is thrilled when a new boy arrives in the village. The boy Mukhsin (Muhammad Syafie bin Naswip) may be only two years older but his troubled home life and rising hormones give him an emotional complexity that Orked and their growing friendship are ill equipped to manage." “Mukhsin ” she revisits the loving and liberal family of her previous features continuing her portrait of one woman’s journey from childhood through adolescence and marriage." with English subtitles) and directed by Yasmin Ahmad; director of photography Keong Low; edited by Affandi Jamaluddin; art director Zaini Abdul Latiff; produced by Ahmad Puad Onah; released by Grand Brilliance. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theater Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." ” she murmurs resignedly in a moment that perfectly captures the film’s calm acuity and its maker’s empathy for those whose dreams may never come true." Muhammad Syafie bin Naswip (Mukhsin) Irwan Iskandar bin Abidin (Pak Atan) and Adibah Noor (Kak Yam)." “Mukhsin” paints the turmoil of puppy love on a canvas of family relationships as delightful as it is believable. With a free-spirited English-speaking mother and a father who helps with housework (“Malays who have forgotten their roots ” grumbles a local busybody) Orked’s family is as likely to arouse envy as it is disapproval. This is exemplified by a pregnant neighbor who is hauling laundry while her philandering husband polishes his motorcycle." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/23/movies/23post.html
Dave Foley (Uncle Dave) Jackie Tohn (Faith) Larry Thomas (Osama bin Laden) Erick Avari (Habib) Brent Mendenhall (George W. Bush) and Verne Troyer (himself)." language nudity and ineptitude." irreverent and boorish to the max “Postal” explodes with bad attitude and lousy filmmaking. Opening with the sine qua non of tasteless 9/11 gags and closing with a shot of President Bush (Brent Mendenhall) skipping through a field of mushroom clouds hand in hand with “Sammy ” a k a Osama  bin Laden (Larry Thomas) this idiot burlesque of American society manages to be both clueless and fearless." his movie is a master class in botched editing — he might have been on to something as viciously cathartic as “Team America: World Police.” As it stands (barely flatulently clutching a humongous firearm) “Postal” is a gimpy half-step forward for the man popularly known as “the worst filmmaker in the world.”" inspired by the video game; director of photography Mathias Neumann; edited by Julian Clarke; production designer Tink; produced by Mr. Boll Shawn Williamson and Dan Clarke; released by Event Film. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." director and co-writer the film is loosely based on a controversial video game about a trailer park resident (Zach Ward) going “postal” in the small town of Paradise Ariz. — and is strictly for fans of short-attention-span anarchy and desultory ultraviolence." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/23/movies/23meta.html
” an intrepid unlikely and altogether splendid feat of D.I.Y. reportage. The movie opens in the fall of 2006 as the filmmaker Suroosh Alvi having sneaked into Baghdad via Germany and Kurdistan dons a bulletproof vest under the watch of his $1 500-a-day security detail and prepares to interview the members of Acrassicauda the only Iraqi heavy metal band." Tony on lead guitar Marwan on drums Faisal on vocals and rhythm guitar — are very much alive if not exactly kicking as they eke out rock-star dreams amid the chaos of war. (The band’s name comes from Androctonus crassicauda the Latin name for a black scorpion found in the Iraqi desert.) After managing a single gig at a hotel later ruined by a car bomb they flee to Damascus as “heavy metal refugees.”" ” he says into a camera operated by his co-director Eddy Moretti. “It’s dangerous. People would say it’s really [expletive] stupid for us to being doing this. But uh you know heavy metal rules.”" this rock-doc like no other electrifies its genre and redefines headbanging as an act of hard-core courage." with English subtitles; edited by Bernardo Loyola; music by Acrassicauda; produced by Mr. Moretti Mr. Alvi and Monica Hampton; released by Arts Alliance America. At Clearview’s 62nd and Broadway Theater 62 West 62nd Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/23/movies/23mach.html
Asami (Miki Sugihara) Ryosuke Kawamura (Yu Hyuga) Nobuhiro Nishihara (Sho Kimura) Kentaro Shimazu (Mr. Kimura) and Honoka (Mrs. Kimura)." Ms. Yashiro remains aloof from the screenplay’s sleazier moments. Unfortunately the same cannot be said for the movie’s scariest villain a yakuza mom only Tarantino could love. What she does with her bra is worth the price of admission alone." “The Machine Girl” plays to the balcony with schlocky effects (the camera lens frequently suffers collateral splatter) and visible roots (a terrifically cheesy 1970s title sequence). As Ami tackles a bewildering array of adversaries — including a bunch of bereaved parents known as the Super Mourner Gang — faces are flayed  and eyeballs impaled in an escalating rush of inventive mortifications." a basketball-loving high schooler whose beloved brother is killed by bullies the soft-core starlet Minase Yashiro blazes through the movie like a vengeful hall monitor. Seeking justice Ami confronts the parents of the lead bully who respond by pan-frying her forearm — an extremity that will later be replaced by a machine-gun prosthesis. Like Rose McGowan’s character in “Planet Terror ” Ami is retrofitted for revenge." with English subtitles) and directed by Noboru Iguchi; director of photography Yasutaka Nagano; edited by Kenji Tanabe; music by Koh Nakagawa; production designer Yasuo Kurosu; visual effects supervisor Tsuyoshi Kazuno; produced by Yoko Hayama Yoshinori Chiba and Satoshi Nakamura; released by Media Blasters Releasing Fever Dreams and Tokyo Shock. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." cunning hardware and comely young avengers in abbreviated plaid skirts reaches some kind of climax with “The Machine Girl ” a riotous blend of arterial spray and grindhouse glee." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/23/movies/23wari.html
the director of “Dr. Strangelove ” whose influence permeates “War Inc. ” would never have succumbed. A prolonged battle scene set to the “Blue Danube” waltz  is pure Kubrick but it is executed by the director Joshua Seftel without the same icy sense of the absurd. Like much else in the movie it seems merely derivative." whose centerpiece will be the wedding of Yonica Babyyeah (Hilary Duff) the Britney Spears of Central Asia. Ms. Duff breaks out of her everygirl persona to play this spoiled squirming kohl-eyed vamp who growls “I Want to Blow You Up” with every innuendo intact and travels with a posse of ersatz gangsters. Inside this predatory tramp however beats the heart of a lost little girl." INC." an upstart Middle Eastern oil minister who wants to build his own pipeline through Turaqistan thwarting Tamerlane’s intention to corner the country’s natural resources. Outside the Emerald City where Hauser occasionally ventures Turaqistan appears to have been already reduced to rubble. But the battle rages on and chaos reigns." Jeremy Pikser and John Cusack; director of photography Zoran Popovic; edited by Michael Berenbaum; music by David Robbins; production designer Miljen (Kreka) Kljakovic; produced by Les Weldon Danny Lerner Mr. Cusack and Grace Loh; released by First Look Studios. In Manhattan at the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." Inc.” is gonzo moviemaking with a bleeding heart. A satirical farce that wants to be “Dr. Strangelove” for the age of terrorism it is a zany nihilistic free-for-all that goes soft." Inc.” is able to conjure in its early scenes is sabotaged by the presence of the film’s prime mover John Cusack an actor who even when playing the ultimate cynic can’t keep from coming across as a misguided nice guy on the verge of seeing the light. Mr. Cusack who also wrote the screenplay with Mark Leyner and Jeremy Pikser and is one of the film’s several producers stars as Hauser a samurai-style hit man dispatched to the Middle East in the near future on an assassination mission." Inc. ” but they seldom reach a full boil. The movie is repeatedly sidetracked as it glimpses new satirical targets. A particularly distracting cause célèbre is a plan to market a pornographic video of Yonica’s wedding night." Inc.” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for violence language and brief sexual material." Marsha Dillon (Joan Cusack) is an enraged sourpuss who suggests an exponentially more disagreeable Mary Matalin. Ms. Cusack’s harshly funny portrayal and the performances of Mr. Aykroyd and of Ben Kingsley as Walken an evil puppetmaster and C.I.A. honcho are the movie’s strongest because their characters don’t have souls. This being a satire why should they?" the tough guy who swigs shots of hot sauce without shedding a tear falls in love with Natalie Hegalhuzen (Marisa Tomei) a liberal journalist who shows up on the scene. When she is kidnapped and threatened with beheading after venturing outside the Emerald City Hauser gets to play the hero." Mr. Cusack still looks and sounds like a softy. His destination is the Emerald City (read the Green Zone) in the fictional Turaqistan (read Iraq) a country occupied by Tamerlane (read Halliburton) a corporation run by an unnamed former vice president of the United States (Dan Aykroyd doing a dead-on parody of Dick Cheney)." Hilary Duff (Yonica Babyyeah) Marisa Tomei (Natalie Hegalhuzen) Joan Cusack (Marsha Dillon) Ben Kingsley (Walken/the Viceroy) Lubomir  Neikov (Omar Sharif) and Dan Aykroyd (Mr. Vice President) ." the vice president boasts that the continuing conflict between Tamerlane and insurgent forces is the first war ever outsourced to private enterprise. As a trade show begins a chorus line of women with prosthetic legs dances. Their prostheses are Tamerlane products." in this case is that nothing really adds up. What initially appears whimsical eventually seems sloppy. And when the bleeding heart kicks in you feel betrayed." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/23/movies/23huan.html
“The Children of Huang Shi” molds the true story of the English reporter George Hogg (played by the Irish actor Jonathan Rhys Meyers) into a chaste love triangle given urgency by the Japanese invasion of China." Radha Mitchell (Lee Pearson) Chow Yun-Fat (Jack Chen) Michelle Yeoh (Madame Wang) David Wenham (Barnes) and Guang Li (Shi Kai)." Zhao Xiaoding; edited by Geoff Lamb; music by David Hirschfelder; production designer Steven Jones-Evans; produced by Arthur Cohn Wieland Schulz-Keil Peter Loehr Jonathan Shteinman and Martin Hagemann; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes." holed up in a crumbling orphanage eating worm-infested grain and unaware that their soon-to-be savior is playing daredevil newshound in a terrorized Nanjing. Reckless to a fault Hogg is presently facing the business end of a Japanese sword only to be rescued by a wry Chinese Communist guerrilla (Chow Yun-Fat stealing the movie) and soothed by a brisk self-punishing American (Radha Mitchell). Eventually these three will shepherd the orphans — and their own complicated affections — across the Gobi Desert to safety." explicit opium-smoking and in-your-face killing." avoiding the saccharine with realistic depictions of a war-ravaged China (where he filmed) and a cast well versed in stiff-upper-lip. The terrific cinematographer Zhao Xiaoding photographs dust devils and bullets as carefully as the luminous face of Michelle Yeoh whose role as an enterprising war widow adds political nuance to a determinedly apolitical script." whose personality and motivations remain unplumbed. That’s why the testimonies from some of his former charges played over the end credits are so unexpectedly moving." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/22/movies/22indy.html
based on a story by George Lucas and Jeff Nathanson;  director of photography Janusz Kaminski; edited by Michael Kahn; music by John Williams; production designer Guy Hendrix Dyas; visual effects and animation by Industrial Light & Magic; executive produced by Kathleen Kennedy and Mr. Lucas; produced by Frank Marshall; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 3 minutes." lots of noise and money too but what’s absent is any sense of rediscovery the kind that’s necessary whenever a filmmaker dusts off an old formula or a genre standard. “Raiders of the Lost Ark” creaks with age now but to look at it again is to see Mr. Spielberg actively engaging in an organic whole taking a beloved template and repurposing it for the modern blockbuster age he helped create. By contrast “The Crystal Skull” comes alive only in isolated segments in a clever motorcycle chase that ends in a library and best of all in an eerie sequence at  an atomic test site that wittily puts the nuclear in family." Mr. Ford rode the ups and downs of high-concept stardom oscillating between roles that called for him to flash his customary wry grin or his equally familiar grumpy frown. He wears both in “The Crystal Skull ” though the busy story makes enormous effort to keep the mood happy and snappy and decidedly PG-13 friendly — P.C. friendly too as in politically correct with fewer dark-skinned people popping their eyeballs. Not that Indy has gone soft or the natives have gone hard mind you only that Mr. Spielberg no longer seems as eager to cut down extras for a laugh." Cate Blanchett (Irina Spalko) Karen Allen (Marion Ravenwood) Ray Winstone (“Mac” George Michale) John Hurt (Professor Oxley) Jim Broadbent (Dean Charles Stanforth) and Shia LaBeouf (Mutt Williams)." France — “Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull” is a movie for boomers of all ages though you can bet the bank that plenty of tots will be tagging along with Mom and Dad Granny and Gramps. Like the 1981 blockbuster “Raiders of the Lost Ark ” the first in a monster franchise that has spawned two previous movie sequels a television series comics novels video games and Disney theme-park attractions this new one was directed by Steven Spielberg cooked up and executive produced by George Lucas (with Kathleen Kennedy) and stars Harrison Ford as the archaeologist-adventurer-sexpot with the sardonic grin rakish fedora and suggestive bullwhip." which have expedited the return of blond-haired blue-eyed villainy to the screen. Set in 1957 this new Indy yarn written by David Koepp from a story by Mr. Lucas and Jeff Nathanson takes place far from the Middle East even if it opens in a desert. The bad guys this time are cold war Reds first seen poking around an American military base and led by Irina Spalko. A caricature given crude playful life by Cate Blanchett Irina owes more than a little to Rosa Klebb the pint-size Soviet operative played by Lotte Lenya who took on James Bond in “From Russia With Love.”" insipid kind — and on other movies. Some of these allusions amuse (a sea of red ants parting à la “The Ten Commandments”) while others are just painful (Mr. LaBeouf done up to resemble Marlon Brando in “The Wild One”). It’s odd to see Mr. Spielberg recycling plot points already chewed through by Roland Emmerich in “Stargate ” though Indy’s brief encounter with some ferociously feathered Indians who look right out of Mel Gibson’s “Apocalypto” was a tantalizingly sweet pip a sequel in waiting (“Indiana Jones Meets Mad Max”) or maybe just a YouTube mash-up." but you’d be hard pressed to find much inspiration in their latest collaboration. There’s plenty of perspiration of course what with the wall-to-wall chases — many tricked out with obvious computer-generated effects — that careen one into another like colliding big rigs. As expected the high leaps and long jumps look impressive even if it’s something of a bummer when one of the best directors working today (Mr. Spielberg) doesn’t seem to be working as hard as the stunt crew. Initially I thought he was bored with the material (he wouldn’t be alone) but now I think he’s just grown out of this kind of sticky kids’ stuff." her hair bobbed and Slavic accent slipping and sliding as far south as Australia Ms. Blanchett takes to her role with brio snapping her black gloves and all but clicking her black boots like one of those cartoon Nazis that traipse through earlier Indy films. She’s pretty much a hoot the life of an otherwise drearily familiar party. Among the other invited guests are Ray Winstone John Hurt and Shia LaBeouf who plays Mutt the young sidekick onboard to bring in those viewers whose parents were still in grade school when the first movie hit. Karen Allen who played Indy’s love interest in “Raiders ” is here too with a megawatt smile and a bit of the old spunk." which was shown out of competition at the Cannes Film Festival and will probably scoop up more money than the rest of the selections combined serves as a reunion for the principal creative team. Almost two decades have lapsed since the third installment in the series “Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade” (1989). In the years since Mr. Lucas — whose logo for Lucasfilm  received the loudest applause at the press screening in Cannes — continued to build his special-effects empire and resurrected the “Star Wars” franchise while Mr. Spielberg has oscillated between serious-minded projects and financially instrumental entertainments." but little blood." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/21/movies/21heav.html
as the lives of the characters cross and entwine there is a sense of human connections becoming stronger and thicker of a fragile moral order coalescing beneath the randomness and cruelty of modern life. And even as the movie bristles with violence — accidental and systematic sexual and political — its tone is curiously gentle." who has fled to Germany to escape the Turkish police. It is not hard to see why. The prospect of helping a radical fugitive from an exotic country appeals to Lotte’s sense of political drama to be sure but Ms. Yesilcay’s charisma transcends ideology. With her high wide-set cheekbones and prizefighter’s hunch (she reminded me a little of Michelle Rodriguez in “Girlfight”) Ayten has a sexual magnetism that is both glamorous and predatory. Of course Lotte risks everything — her mother’s love her safety her life — to help Ayten. Who wouldn’t?" Yeter (Nursel Kose) a Turkish woman who works as a prostitute in Bremen Germany is confronted by two menacing enforcers of Islamic morality who demand that she renounce her sinful ways. “I repent ” she says through gritted teeth and though her words are more a rebuke than an apology they establish one of Mr. Akin’s themes. Toward the end of the film Yeter’s daughter Ayten (Nurgul Yesilcay) is confronted by Susanne (Hanna Schygulla) a German woman (the mother of Ayten’s lover Lotte) who has suffered a terrible loss brought about partly by Ayten’s actions. Speaking no German Ayten tries to express her overwhelming remorse in rudimentary English. “Forgiven” is the only word she can find as if she is offering absolution instead of asking for it." NurselKose (Yeter Ozturk) Hanna Schygulla(Susanne Staub) Tuncel Kurtiz (AliAksu) Nurgul Yesilcay (Ayten Oztu rk)and Patrycia Ziolkowska (Lotte Staub)." two daughters a father and a son all arranged in more or less symmetrical pairs. In the course of this extraordinary film by the German writer-director Fatih Akin (which won the best screenplay award in Cannes last year) children are lost lost parents are never found and generational and geographical distances grow wider." German and Turkish with English subtitles) and directed byFatih Akin; director of photography Rainer Klausmann; edited by AndrewBird; production designers Tamo Kunzand Sirma Bradley; music by Shantel;produced by Andreas Thiel Klaus Maeckand Mr. Akin; released by Strand Releasing.At Film Forum 209 West HoustonStreet west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 2 hours 2minutes. This film is not rated." manifesting a local knowledge that quietly demolishes received ideas about East and West. Nejat (Baki Davrak) whose father Ali (Tuncel Kurtiz) emigrated from Turkey is a professor of German literature giving lectures on Goethe to sleepy college students. He is presented not as a symbol of assimilation or deracination but as a person more or less comfortable with himself. The same cannot be said for Lotte (Patrycia Ziolkowska). Her mix of childish impulsiveness and half-baked idealism puts her at odds with her mother Susanne a former hippie whose accommodation to respectable middle-class life drives Lotte crazy." ” it’s not for fear of giving anything away. Mr. Akin provides his own spoilers in the form of chapter titles that announce the deaths of certain characters before we have even met them. Rather than dissipate the suspense though these disclosures intensify it by adding an element of dread. And the shape of the narrative a mutation of the now-pervasive “Babel” model of braided chronologically decentered storytelling allows for plenty of surprises and revelations." even at their worst but he also regards them with a measure of detachment as their good intentions go astray and their bad impulses bear terrible fruit. Similarly while he is acutely aware of viciousness injustice and hypocrisy in both Turkey (where his parents were born) and his native Germany his camera absorbs the authentic beauty in both countries from tidy Bremen to pulsing Istanbul to the tea-covered hillsides and fishing villages of the Black Sea coast." “Head-On ” was a tour de force driven by rage and sexual desire that traveled over similar cultural and geographical terrain at ferocious velocity. “The Edge of Heaven” has a wider scope and a more contemplative deliberate mood and if it doesn’t match the brutal impact of “Head-On” it has a cumulative power both intellectual and emotional of its own. By the end you know the characters in it so well that you can’t believe you’ve seen the movie only once yet on a second viewing it seems completely new. And that may be because the world they inhabit is immediately recognizable — until we get to heaven it’s where we live — and like no place you’ve been before." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/21/movies/21jiha.html
whose documentary ranges from Johannesburg to Istanbul from doubt to despair (with a happy detour among the drag queens of India). He does manage to locate a headstrong lesbian in Paris albeit one whose face like those of many of the subjects here has been digitally blurred." ” runs her contradictory lament “we have no right to alter his creation.”" “A Jihad for Love” is not a sequel to the pornographic satire “The Raspberry Reich” (2004) in which pseudo-revolutionaries exhort their comely comrades to “join the homosexual intifada!” It is rather more arduously a dispatch from the outer limits of marginalization: a documentary on devout Muslims struggling with their homosexuality." Arabic Farsi Urdu Hindi Turkish and French with English subtitles; directors of photography Mr. Sharma and Berke Bas; edited by Juliet Weber; music by Richard Horowitz and Sussan Deyhim; produced by Mr. Sharma and Sandi DuBowski; released by First Run Features. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/16/movies/16repr.html
of course those fathers having long been ground up and turned into so much cultural mulch. Like many other cinematically smitten young (and not so young) filmmakers Mr. Trier who wrote this supple intelligent first feature about two longtime friends with his longtime friend Eskil Vogt borrows from film history promiscuously sampling strategies gestures and ideas and breathing movie love like air. Yet “Reprise ” which races and rushes even as it nimbly skips across time — leaping from the present to the past and to possible futures (banal fanciful) then back again — has none of the lugubrious self-consciousness that can turn a film made under the influence into an academic exercise." with English subtitles) by Eskil Vogt and Mr. Trier; director of photography Jakob Ihre; edited by Olivier Bugge Couttè; production designer Roger Rosenberg; produced by Karin Julsrud; released by Miramax Films and Red Envelope Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." the center of gravity shifts to Erik whose life unwinds (and rewinds) as if it is some kind of counternarrative to his broken friend’s story which is more or less what it becomes. Because the sly Mr. Trier and Mr. Vogt probably read their share of Karl Marx — and understand that we have all read seen and maybe even lived this story — history repeats in “Reprise ” first as tragedy and then as farce. Erik’s first novel is at last published though with rather less stress and storm. Instead of imploding he fends off one assault after another some self-induced as when his publisher (Henrik Mestad)  solemnly suggests that Erik change his imposingly titled novel “Prosopopoeia ” to “Prozac-and-Pee.”" a crucial difference being that they’re not embarrassed to sound as if they’ve also read a book or two. They drop names from Nietzsche to Wittgenstein (tossing in Russ Meyer for good measure) but back their allusions with ideas. I have no clue (well one) if the philosopher Paul de Man was on their reading list (he isn’t mentioned) but it seems relevant that he believed prosopopoeia is “the trope of autobiography ” meaning it’s a representation. We may think it is the life that makes the autobiography but de Man wondered if the reverse were true: “the autobiographical project may itself produce and determine the life.”" Mr. Trier who was born in 1974 goes from zero to 60 from the 1960s to the present with enormous assurance. He crams a world of ideas — about identity friendship home and suffering and not suffering for your art — into this tight controlled film confident that the rest of us will follow its every plot kink and jump across time. You need as much faith in your audience as in yourself to make a film like this and you need to know the past without being hung up on it. Mr. Trier knows that this story has been told before — boy meets girl makes art book loses mind — and that what matters is how those parts are arranged." each clutching a manuscript that will set the course for the rest of their lives (or so they hope). Long and lean and dressed in their usual punk black these soulful twins blond-on-blond mirror images are on the brink of a great adventure that will bring them adulation and humiliation amid love affairs breakups and one agonizing breakdown. Each will succeed and fail burning brightly and flaming out in a story that opens like a portrait of the artist as a young man (times two) and with stealth and wit metamorphoses into something wide and deep and funny." therefore I am. Or so Phillip and Erik seem to believe as they throw themselves into a life of literature (it might as well be cinema) with all the attendant clichés like their disdain for (terror of) women. What Phillip Erik and their swaggering boys’ club don’t initially grasp is that what makes the greater more interesting man is living in the world — living with other people other histories with the present and past both. We breathe the same air breathed by earlier generations who pondered the same imponderables and sometimes made great art about those imponderables. You can learn from the past because while writing is thinking so too are reading books and watching films. We watch therefore we are." exhilaratingly playful testament to being young and hungry — for life and meaning and immortality and for other young and restless bodies — “Reprise” is a blast of unadulterated movie pleasure. Made under the self-knowing influence of the early French New Wave before Godard discovered Mao and Truffaut lost his groove the film wears its influences without a trace of anxiety in part I imagine because its precociously talented Norwegian director Joachim Trier doesn’t worry about old-fashioned conceits like creative patricide. You don’t have to kill your fathers just learn from them." who suddenly hits it big after the publication of his novel just as abruptly — less than seven minutes after the opening credits — suffers a collapse. In between soaring and falling he finds first love with Kari (Viktoria Winge) a melancholic beauty who evokes Mr. Godard’s first wife and muse Anna Karina and with whom he visits Paris. Mr. Trier shares this new love with unembarrassed tenderness and an attentive hand-held camera and then with equal economy gently picks through its remains after Phillip’s breakdown. By the time the two former lovers are shyly reminiscing about Paris sitting in a cafe and summoning the past as if it were a dream you’re deep in it with them — and not yet at the 35-minute mark." Espen Klouman Hoiner (Erik) Viktoria Winge (Kari) Odd Magnus Williamson (Morten) Pal Stokka (Geir) Christian Rubeck (Lars) Henrik Mestad (Jan Eivind) and Henrik Elvestad (Henning)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/16/movies/16fath.html
Menachem instinctively cares for animals. After observing a German shepherd chasing the ambulance carrying its dying owner to the hospital he asks his father if good dogs go to heaven. Abraham sternly explains that they don’t because “animals have no wills no souls no commandments.”" Esther and Menachem are palpable in every shared glance. Even when Abraham’s autocratic behavior angers Esther she writes down her feelings rather than speak harshly. When Abraham reads her words he quakes with shame and apology. The acting of Mr. Dayan (a son of Moshe Dayan) and Ms. Bar has an emotional transparency rarely glimpsed on screen." “My Father My Lord” is an implicit critique of ultra-Orthodox dogma by a filmmaker who grew up in a Hasidic community but abandoned it when he was 25 to study film. It compares the biblical story of Abraham and Isaac in which a father agrees to sacrifice his son to the Lord and is given a last-minute reprieve to the rabbi’s loss of Menachem in which God does not save the boy." the ultimate parental nightmare is the ultimate test of faith. We know that for the rest of their lives unanswerable questions will scream in their heads. How could their righteousness be rewarded with such calamity? Are they to blame? “My Father My Lord” has the glowing simplicity and force of a biblical parable." with English subtitles) and directed by David Volach; director of photography Boaz Jonathan Yacov; edited by Haim Tabakman; art director Yoav Sinai; produced by Eyal Shiray; released by Kino International. Running time: 1 hour 13 minutes. This film is not rated." in which a wife is ostracized from her family because she is falsely believed to be infertile and her husband marries another woman. For all its criticism of blindly exercised patriarchal authority the movie is heartbreakingly tender." Abraham goes to the window. Solemnly carrying out an obscure and ambivalent commandment in the Torah to send away the mother bird he shoos her from the nest. Because there is no simple answer when Menachem asks him why he replies “We do everything in the Torah without asking why.” Esther rushes to assure the child that the mother will return to her young." ” declares Abraham Edelman (Assi Dayan) an ultra-Orthodox rabbi to his yeshiva students in David Volach’s bare anguished drama “My Father My Lord.” He speaks with the same absolute certainty with which all fundamentalists be they Jewish Muslim or Christian voice their beliefs." Abraham is seen weeping over Menachem’s coffin. The story some of it told through the little boy’s eyes immediately backtracks to relate the events leading up to his death." ” an Israeli movie that was named best narrative feature at last year’s Tribeca Film Festival observes the severe family life of Abraham; his wife Esther (Sharon Hacohen Bar); and their young son Menachem (Ilan Griff). An inquisitive boy Menachem worships his father but rebels against him in the small seemingly harmless ways that all children do against authority." Abraham orders him to tear it up in his parents’ presence. Menachem obeys but is unable to hold back a tear. This is a movie of tiny gestures with earthshaking implications." Sharon Hacohen Bar (Esther Edelman) and Ilan Griff (Menachem Edelman)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/16/movies/16yell.html
agonizing moment in which the only sounds are the wind in the trees and the ominous cawing of crows Yella pulls herself to shore. Ben follows seconds later and collapses. She staggers to her feet and dashes to the station in time to catch the train." as Yella tries to forget the past and adjust to a faster colder world in which her guide and eventual lover Philipp (Devid Striesow) tutors her in corporate mind games. As the process erodes her humanity she has frightening flashbacks to the crash in which she once again hears the water guzzling the wind blowing and the crows crying." who bears an unsettling resemblance to Ben — and like Ben can fly into a rage at a second’s notice —  works for a venture capitalist as a negotiator. He also has his own secret investment scheme for striking it rich." with English subtitles) and directed by Christian Petzold; director of photography Hans Fromm; edited by Bettina Böhler; produced by Florian Koerner von Gustorf and Michael Weber; released by Cinema Guild. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." which was inspired by the 1962 film “Carnival of Souls ” becomes increasingly abstract the geography and the characters acquire a deeper symbolism.  The Elbe part of the former dividing line between East and West Germany may be the border between the material and immaterial worlds. But which is which? Once Ben reappears he suggests Philipp’s phantom doppelgänger. Or is it the other way around? “Yella” is the kind of movie that tantalizes the mind with possibilities without solving the puzzle." who doesn’t remember her has been fired for financial chicanery. Philipp happens to be staying in the same hotel and hires her for a freelance accounting job. Soon they become partners and then lovers moving from one negotiation to the next like natural-born killers wielding computers and cellphones.  Complicating their journey is the reappearance of Ben who continues to stalk Yella." Ms. Hoss exudes a cool slightly eerie magnetism. As Yella tries to gain the world her soul slips away." a sleek young businesswoman on the make is an ardent student of that world. One of the first lessons she is taught is how to strike the “broker pose.” The technique which her instructor says he learned from a John Grisham movie requires that at the opportune moment during a business negotiation she lean over and whisper something in his ear." Yella travels back to Wittenberge from Hanover where she has landed a job as an accountant. Immediately she is accosted by her desperate ex-husband and former business partner Ben (Hinnerk Schönemann) who pleads with her not to abandon him now that he is bankrupt. The morning of her return trip he offers her a lift in his S.U.V. and drives off a bridge into the Elbe River." Devid Striesow (Philipp) and Hinnerk Schönemann (Ben)." Wittenberge  in the former East Germany to Hanover in the former West Germany. It is a move the film suggests from a comfortable semi-rural existence with roots to an ominous exurban no man’s land of glassed-in conference rooms rental cars and anonymous business hotels. Here Yella embraces her talent as a deceitful wheeler-dealer in meetings that have the tension of high-stakes poker games." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/16/movies/16sang.html
angry dishwasher. Burly and thick-skinned from years of toil with little to show for it Diego stashes his life savings in a brick wall in his decrepit apartment and occasionally goes out for beers at a dance hall with his fellow kitchen workers. Mr. Ochoa’s solid performance is by far the  strongest. The movie cuts back and forth between the impostor and the real son still searching for his father. Pedro lost and hungry strikes up an improbable relationship with Magda (Paola Mendoza) a homeless prostitute and drug addict who lives in a cellar and hustles Pedro every time he runs into her. In exchange for cash earned from a day’s labor she agrees to help him locate Diego who might live on one of several streets with the same number." “Sangre de Mi Sangre” collapses in a false flashy denouement that leaves you feeling cheated." questions accumulate. How could the border crossing facilitated by corrupt United States patrol officers be so easy? Who paid whom and how much? Could Juan really have stowed away so easily at the last minute? Little about the connection between Pedro and Magda  makes sense; to elicit sympathy for her it throws in a gratuitous rape. As a character Pedro never develops beyond a credulous good-hearted cipher." ” Christopher Zalla’s grim incompletely realized story of identity theft and betrayal among illegal Mexican immigrants in the shabbier streets of Brooklyn shows 17-year-old Pedro (Jorge Adrian Espindola) moments after he is booted from the truck that has smuggled him from Puebla to New York City." with English subtitles) and directed by Christopher Zalla; director of photography Igor Martinovic; edited by Aaron Yanes; music by Brian Cullman; production designer Tommaso Ortino; produced by Benjamin Odell and Per Melita; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes. This film is not rated." speaking no English robbed of his backpack he has only the supposed address of his father Diego (Jesus Ochoa) whom he has never met. As he cowers dazed and shivering in the truck depot the lights of Manhattan’s skyscrapers glitter behind him like icy jack-o’-lantern teeth." Jorge Adrian Espindola (Pedro) Jesus Ochoa (Diego) Paola Mendoza (Magda) Eugenio Derbez (Anibal) Israel Hernandez (Ricardo) and Leonardo Anzure (Simon)." Juan (Armando Hernandez) a young thug fleeing a street gang ducks into the truck that is about to transport a group of Mexicans to the United States. On the trip he befriends Pedro and they exchange personal information." is the directorial debut of Mr. Zalla a Kenyan-born Spanish-speaking New Yorker who studied film at Columbia University. Although it exhibits a heartfelt connection with the city’s half-invisible population of illegal immigrants its myriad inconsistencies and strained plotting are increasingly frustrating." Juan misleads Diego into believing he is working during the day when he is really scouring the apartment for hidden cash. Eventually Diego pours his heart out in a weepy drunken tirade about his faithless wife and Juan begins to feel some pangs of conscience." Pedro awakes from a nap to find the truck empty and his backpack stolen. Juan the thief goes directly to the address on a letter Pedro was carrying to his father from his recently deceased mother. Even when Juan waves the letter as proof of his identity Diego resists him and Juan is forced to wage a campaign to win him over." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/16/movies/16quan.html
if this isn’t just the cutest thing I don’t know what is. “Quantum Hoops ” a documentary by Rick Greenwald tells the story of the California Institute of Technology’s men’s basketball team — a topic that in the context of college sports is approximately as farcical as the history of aspiring semioticians among the contestants on “America’s Next Top Model.”" directed produced and edited by Rick Greenwald; director of photography Lauren Langford ; music by Brian Arbuckle; released by Green Forest Films. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." the Caltech Beavers (so named after “nature’s engineer”) cull players from one of the most rigorously selective academically demanding universities in the world. These boys are quite literally rocket scientists —  or more accurately double majors in rocket science and applied math." who narrates this wry good-natured picture with affable bemusement informs us that Caltech lays claim to both the highest ratio of Nobel Prize winners to faculty and a men’s basketball team that at the time of filming was distinguished by a record 243 consecutive conference losses dating to 1985. Mr. Greenwald follows the Beavers’ try at breaking that losing streak during the final week of the 2006 season while chronicling the handful of ups and many many downs in the history of a team remembered less for its athletic prowess (or even competence) than for once including the father of modern computational fluid dynamics." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/16/movies/16narn.html
and some of their charm and novelty has been  chipped away —  not so much by any lapse on the part of the filmmakers as by a sense of familiarity. Tales of good and evil set in enchanted lands populated by mythical beasts are ubiquitous these days which may diminish the power of each new spell. The Pevensie children  can withdraw to London between episodes but moviegoers are unlikely and also perhaps unwilling to escape from Narnia and the other increasingly numerous and therefore increasingly mundane places like it." since some of the violence is fairly intense and some of the deaths may unsettle younger children." however fanciful are grounded in human problems of power cruelty and conflict. “Prince Caspian” is named for its square-jawed rather bland hero (played by Ben Barnes) but its major source of dramatic energy is the villain Caspian’s uncle Miraz who is played with malignant grandeur by the great Italian actor Sergio Castellitto. Miraz is a classic royal usurper who has taken the throne from Caspian’s father the rightful king and who plans to pass it along to his own newborn son once Caspian is out of the way. His court is a viper’s nest of double-dealing and shifting allegiance." what ensues is basically a war movie with elaborate battle sequences in a castle courtyard and on a grassy plain accompanied by thundering hoofbeats whizzing arrows clanking swords and Harry Gregson-Williams’s rousing score. These sections are ostensibly what the public wants to see and certainly what the producers pay heavily to bring to life. There is a risk of sameness and tedium which Mr. Adamson does not entirely overcome though he and his fellow screenwriters Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely sprinkle in enough witty dialogue to keep the movie’s long middle from feeling like too much of a slog." William Moseley (Peter) Anna Popplewell (Susan) Skandar Keynes (Edmund) Georgie Henley (Lucy) Peter Dinklage (Trumpkin the Red Dwarf) Warwick Davis (Nikabrik the Black Dwarf) Sergio Castellitto (King Miraz) Pierfrancesco Favino (General Glozelle) Damián Alcázar (Lord Sopespian) Vincent Grass (Doctor Cornelius) David Bowles (Lord Gregoire) and Liam Neeson (Voice of Aslan)." it has been about two and a half years  since “The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe ” the first installment in Walt Disney and Walden Media’s mighty “Chronicles of Narnia” franchise. In wartime England where the Pevensie children live when they’re not consorting with talking lions and battling witches a year or so has gone by. But in Narnia itself to which the four plucky Pevensies return in “Prince Caspian ” the second movie in the series centuries have passed and everything has changed. The grand hall where Peter Susan Edmund and Lucy were made monarchs of the realm has fallen into ruin and the friendly woodland creatures with their homey British accents and computer-animated fur seem to have vanished from the scene." whose sometimes fractious sibling dynamic provided the first “Narnia” movie with a hint of psychological complexity seem a little flatter here as if they’ve grown accustomed to their jobs as action heroes. And “Prince Caspian” isn’t really about them anyway except insofar as the kids in the audience identify with their courage and good sense." swashbuckling mice and apple-cheeked Pevensies. And hail the popular struggle of the Narnian underground! Since the  Telmarines took over and suppressed the old magic a hardy remnant of Narnians has been hiding amid the pacified trees sustaining themselves with the legends of King Edmund (Skandar Keynes) Queen Lucy (Georgie Henley) Queen Susan (Anna Popplewell) and High King Peter (William Moseley). When these rulers return they rescue Trumpkin (Peter Dinklage) a small angry Narnian taken prisoner by Miraz’s soldiers and eventually join Prince Caspian who exchanges some long half-smoldering looks with Susan." the Witch and the Wardrobe ” both in look and in mood. It is also in some ways more satisfying. Its violent (though gore-free) combat scenes and high body count may rattle very young viewers but older children are likely to be drawn into the thick political intrigue. The relative scarcity of digital effects in the first part of the movie allows the director Andrew Adamson and  the director of photography Karl Walter Lindenlaub to explore the beauty of the Narnian landscape by more traditional cinematic means. Its lush glades and rocky escarpments provide a reminder that the supernaturalism of fairy tales originates in the magic of the natural world." Stephen McFeely and Mr. Adamson based on the C. S. Lewis books; director of photography Karl Walter Lindenlaub; edited by Sim Evan-Jones; music by Harry Gregson-Williams; production designer Roger Ford; visual effects supervisors Dean Wright and Wendy Rogers; produced by Mark Johnson Philip Steuer and Mr. Adamson; released by Walt Disney Studios and Walden Media. Running time: 2 hours 12 minutes." they seem no longer to be in a children’s fantasy story but rather in some kind of Jacobean tragedy a reminder that C. S. Lewis was along with everything else a scholar of English Renaissance literature. In a dark castle in a dark forest men with heavy armor and beard-shadowed faces quarrel and conspire. Instead of fauns and Turkish delight there are murder and betrayal and a grave martial atmosphere lingers over the story even when the spunky dwarfs and chatty rodents return. (Aslan the lion also shows up eventually speaking in the soothing voice of Liam Neeson.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/14/movies/14hamm.html
fixed takes of carefully arranged scenes; the meticulous orchestration of environmental noises; an oblique handling of character and continuity." suspend a length of fabric between trees and settle down to contemplate the weather (oppressive thundering) the yelping of a nearby dog and the fate of its absent master their son a soldier off at war." ” and as Ms. Encina proceeds from one lucid tableau to another (hearth harvest laundry lunch) she hints at rich temporal ambiguities. Categories melt in the torpid air. Present blurs with past life shades to death and things unseen haunt the melancholy shadows delicately  cast in this entrancing Paraguayan clearing." with English subtitles) and directed by Paz Encina; director of photography Willi Behnisch; edited by Miguel Sverdfinger; music by Óscar Cardozo Ocampo; art director Carlos Spatuzza; produced by Isle Hughan Gabriella Sabaté and Marianne Slot. At the Anthology Film Archives 32-34 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village . Running time: 2 hours 38 minutes. This film is not rated." Paraguay may possess one of the most  vital cinemas in the world on the basis of a single film. That “Paraguayan Hammock” happens to be one of the few features to emerge from the country in recent decades in no way diminishes  its rarity." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09surf.html
Dave Homcy; edited by Lasse Jarvi; music by John Dragonetti; produced by Tommy Means Matthew Weaver Jonathan Paskowitz and Graydon Carter; released by HDNet Films and Magnolia Pictures. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." a filmmaker with a thing for youth subcultures (his earlier films include “Hype! ” about the Seattle  music scene) has an easygoing accessible silky-smooth style. Working with a tight team — Dave  Homcy shot the movie on digital and Lasse Jarvi edited it — he makes documentary filmmaking of this sort look deceptively easy. It isn’t though you wouldn’t know it from how seamlessly he and his team integrate the talking-head interviews (the speakers helpfully identified); the locations (California Hawaii Israel); home movies; and news clips. Mr. Pray throws so many images and so much information at you — people and places anecdotes and grudges — you may not immediately notice that all this groovy material has been marshaled into a very neat and conventional structure." one of his sons explains with a mirthless laugh was trying to repopulate the world with Jews. Certainly Doc’s sense of himself as a Jew who had escaped the Holocaust only by an accident of birth by growing up in Southern California hit him hard and kept hitting him. After two unhappy marriages and an unsatisfying professional  stint in Hawaii where he had settled after Stanford Doc shed his worldly belongings and old ways discovered the joys of sex (he’s hilariously ribald on the specifics of that joy) and dedicated himself to uncompromised uncompromising freedom embracing the road like Jack Kerouac one difference being that this dharma bum had a ready-made commune. He fled the greater world creating a smaller manageable one in its place." or Doc straight away in the documentary “Surfwise ” Doug Pray’s wonderfully engaging look at love and family and the relentless pursuit of happiness personal meaning and perfect waves. At least half the battle in the documentary is finding a worthy subject and few live up to their screen time as easily as Doc a born pitchman part carny part evangelical who even in his 80s continues to spread the Paskowitz gospel (clean living clean surfing) with fervor. It’s Doc who revs up the story opening the family’s book of life while doing unclothed calisthenics in front of Mr. Pray’s hovering camera. As he shares his philosophy and leathery skin Doc doesn’t earn your attention — he commands it." tasty waves." but it’s an eager-to-please pleasing commercial enterprise with a reassuring narrative arc (happy sad happy). Once Doc’s origin story has been told (the movie says he introduced surfing to Israel) the story moves into its most fascinating phase namely that stretch in the 1960s and ’70s when he and his wife Juliette a Mexican-American looker with an  apparently sturdy constitution raised with next to no money eight boys and one girl — David Jonathan Abraham Israel Moses Adam Salvador Daniel Navah and Joshua — in a 24-foot camper. A few family members repeat the number 24 as if they still can’t believe it; I’m more wowed by the number 9." it appears that the family mostly moved on too. That at least is the story that both they and Mr. Pray have chosen to tell. It’s a good generally warming  story one that made me want to grab a surfboard or at least check out the family’s famous surf camp in San Diego which as it happens was attended by  Tommy Means who along with Graydon Carter the editor of Vanity Fair and    Jonathan Paskowitz helped produce the movie.  That further explains its clubby feel and perhaps Mr. Pray’s reluctance to push hard. The family that surfs together it seems stays together in poverty and success wipeouts and comebacks alike." but few dropped off with such style and urgency as Dorian Paskowitz the paterfamilias of what is lovingly and at times enviably described as the first family of surfing. It was an intensity in part born of his passionately felt engagement with history as a Jew which took him from Stanford Medical School  in the 1940s to button-down respectability in the  1950s and thereafter on the road and into the blue yonder with a devoted wife nine children a succession of battered campers and the surfboards that were by turns the family’s cradles playpens lifelines and shields." the world Doc made fit neatly into that 24-foot camper. Nut brown and slender the Paskowitz children were beautiful ideal subjects for an exhilarating persuasively liberating experiment. But they were also somewhat like lab rats given to little nips that in time as childish energy morphed into adolescent aggression evolved into violence bordering on the pathological. “I loved supporting the Reich ” says David the eldest son who became the captain in an increasingly authoritarian regime. David’s choice of words is pretty startling particularly given that this is an observant Jewish family. But Mr. Pray who tends to glide rather than dig doesn’t root around in Doc’s psychology or the family’s hurt. He pauses and then he moves on." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09rive.html
“Turn the River” is not what you might expect from this actor best known for his roles in “Gilmore Girls” and in Whit Stillman’s elegiac examinations of ’80s blueblood manners on the Upper East Side. Nor does it have any relationship stylistic or otherwise to the “X-Men” movies in which Ms. Janssen plays Jean Grey." a tough cookie from upstate periodically repairs to regain her bearings in “Turn the River.” Kailey who has served time in prison is a card shark and pool hustler who lives by her wits and exists in a state of such high anxiety that stress makes her retch." the boy shows up with a broken arm. His evasive answers lead Kailey to suspect that his father David (Matt Ross) a successful real estate agent she hasn’t seen in more than a decade has been physically abusive. The moment David appears in the film he emits the same furtive explosiveness as Alby Grant Mr. Ross’s character in the HBO series “Big Love.” His new wife Ellen (Marin Hinkle) walks on eggshells. The movie’s most ominous scenes show this tense enraged man itching for a fight with his son at the dinner table while interrogating him about his school day." devoutly churchgoing mother Abby (Lois Smith) pays a visit and treats him like a disobedient child. The movie’s portrait of a straitlaced Catholic family passing down heavy psychological baggage rings dreadfully true." Hernan Michael Otano; edited by Michael Lahaie; music by Clogs; production designer Paola Ridolfi; produced by Ami Armstrong; released by Screen Media Films. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." kindly mentor Quinette (Rip Torn) who lets her sleep on a pool table and scares up potentially profitable games for her. It is also a drop-off point for letters Kailey exchanges with her 11-year-old son Gulley (Jaymie Dornan) whom she gave up at birth after the collapse of a disastrous early marriage. Gulley attends a  Roman Catholic boys’ school in the city and mother and son arrange secret emotionally fraught meetings in Central Park." he eagerly agrees to it. But the price of false documentation according to Markus who can secure it is $50 000. The only way she can come up with the cash is by winning some high-stakes pool matches which Quinette agrees to help her find. In a move that eventually throws the movie off its track and points it toward shrill melodrama Kailey also demands a gun." she is weather-beaten and without apparent vanity. Nowhere in the movie does she use feminine wiles to coax favors from men although one male friend who hangs around the pool hall Markus (Terry Kinney) is obviously smitten with her. Such is her tainted aura that when she wins $100 from an arrogant college boy in a pool match he flies into a fury and socks her in the face." however “Turn the River” becomes a jerky desultory chase movie in which Kailey’s solidity crumbles and she seems increasingly unhinged; the last third of the movie is almost a different and much weaker film." Jaymie Dornan (Gulley) Rip Torn (Quinette) Matt Ross (David) Lois Smith (Abby) Terry Kinney (Markus) John Juback (Duncan) and Marin Hinkle (Ellen)." “Turn the River” is a finely observed portrait of a desperate working-class woman who refuses to play by ordinary rules. It programmatically plays down the suspense during the ultimate contest which pits Kailey against Duncan (John Juback) a canny seasoned pool hustler adept at mind games." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09rain.html
with English subtitles) by Cathy Rabin based on the film “Red Roofs ” part of “The Desert Trilogy: Yellow Asphalt” by Dany Verete; director of photography Mr. Sivan; edited by Steven Cohen and A. Sreekar Prasad; music by Mark Kilian; production designer Sunil Babu; produced by Doug Mankoff Andrew Spaulding Paul Hardart Tom Hardart and Mark Burton; released by Roadside Attractions and Merchant Ivory. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." who is instructed to violate native  customs  in a desperate cover-up. A stoic taciturn man who loves his boss too much he is a lost soul who has foolishly imagined he could keep one foot in the tribal world and the other in the modern." played by Mr. Roache with a cunning charm that masks an authoritarian severity is carrying on a passionate affair with his housekeeper Sajani (Nandita Das) a beautiful naïve woman who commutes from the village to work at his nearby ranch. One afternoon they are accidentally spied making love at a waterfall by two young boys from the village who report seeing Sajani with an unidentified man." ” the longest of three unrelated stories in the Israeli director Dany  Verete’s 2002 film “Yellow Asphalt ” which explored the collision of modern customs and tribal traditions in contemporary Israel. In that movie a wealthy Jewish farmer who has an affair with his Bedouin housekeeper forces his assistant a Bedouin tribesman to initiate drastic damage control once the relationship is detected. With a screenplay by Cathy Rabin “Before the Rains” has been to moved to colonial India in 1937. The transition from one culture to another is seamless." the better to transport spices for export but it must be completed before the monsoon season. Some of the most visually striking scenes in the lavish beautifully photographed film which was made on location in Kerala show a virtual army of laborers from the nearby village hacking down trees and digging the road. It isn’t quite slave labor but almost." Rahul Bose (T. K.) Nandita Das (Sajani) Lal Paul (Rajat) Jennifer Ehle (Laura) Leopold Benedict (Peter) and John Standing (Humphries)." he insists she leave as soon as possible. The next day he hands her money and entrusts her to T. K. who is ordered to make sure that she leaves. Before departing she asks Moores one last time if he loves her and after a pause he coldly answers no." when threatened ruthlessly exercises its prerogatives. For as long as he can get away with it Moores  lies to his wife about the reasons for the escalating turmoil. Nowadays it’s called stonewalling." Rajat (Lal Paul) interrogates her Sajani’s evasive replies drive him into a fury and he savagely beats her which under tribal law is within his rights. Since Moores’s wife Laura (Jennifer Ehle) has recently arrived from England with their son Peter (Leopold Benedict) Sajani has already become someone to be kept hidden although Moores still swears he loves her." imperialist entitlement forbidden passion between master and servant: the ingredients of the Indian director Santosh Sivan’s period piece “Before the Rains” may be awfully familiar but the film lends them the force of tragedy. From the moment Moores (Linus Roache) an arrogant British planter in the southwestern Indian state of Kerala hands a gun to his loyal manservant T. K. (Rahul Bose) you can be certain that the weapon will be discharged and lives destroyed." T. K. is as naïve in his way as Sajani. The movie is too sophisticated to make Moores  an evil caricature. He is simply the embodiment of the kind of power that when endangered reveals its true nature." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09unse.html
its citizens responded with everything from unadulterated fury to heartbroken resignation to welcome relief. Capturing the full range of these emotions Adam Hootnick’s “Unsettled” makes the political personal drawing a scattershot yet intimate picture of a nation divided." directed produced and edited by Adam Hootnick;  directors of photography Mickey Elkeles and Mr. Hootnick;  music by Jon Lee; released by Resonance Pictures. In English and Hebrew with English subtitles. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." Mr. Hootnick a former producer for MTV News appeals to the demographic he knows best by focusing on the opinions of six attractive  20-something Israelis. A pair of chatty laid-back lifeguards are unwilling to leave their paradisiacal Gaza beach and guaranteed employment while a pro-withdrawal activist explains how her sister’s death at the hands of a Palestinian suicide bomber informs her efforts for peace. Meanwhile two deeply conflicted soldiers learn sensitivity techniques in preparation for the forcible evictions of their fellow citizens." “Unsettled” is a haphazard yet affecting record of diverse beliefs and motivations. Steering clear of analysis or solution the director makes room for people the sound bites often ignore: those whose love for this contentious scrap of land has nothing to do with ideology and everything to do with home." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09trac.html
based on her novel; director of photography Steve Cosens; edited by Jermiah Munce and Gareth C. Scales; music by Broken Social Scene; production designer Ingrid Jurek; produced by Sarah Timmins; released by ThinkFilm. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 17 minutes. This film is not rated." ” says Tracey Berkowitz the 15-year-old protagonist of “The Tracey Fragments.” Since she has also described herself with evident irony as a typical teenage girl it is not always clear what she thinks of herself. And this confusion is part of the point of this short powerful feature directed by Bruce McDonald from a script by Maureen Medved (based on her novel). Tracey (Ellen Page) is a squall of conflicting emotions and perceptions a volatile compound of anger vulnerability curiosity recklessness and fear." assisted by some impressively inventive editors scrambles chronology splinters the screen and layers the sound design to turn “The Tracey Fragments” into the elusive anguished record of an inner world. Nearly every shot dissolves multiplies and recurs so that the screen becomes a space of contending interpretations rather than the objective mirror of a single reality." but their cumulative effect is also hard to shake." ” “Timecode”  and “Conversations With Other Women ” it is usually so that the audience can see the same action simultaneously from different angles. Mr. McDonald does some of this but more often he shatters and scatters images to amplify their expressive power and to induce a state of sensory and cognitive overload analogous to Tracey’s troubled consciousness." Max MacCabe-Lokos (Lance) Ari Cohen (Mr. Berkowitz) Erin McMurtry (Mrs. Berkowitz) Zie Souwand (Sonny Berkowitz) Julian Richings (Dr. Heker) and Slim Twig (Billy Zero)." and the story Mr. McDonald’s movie tells may also be somewhat familiar. Viewed as the sum of its sad sometimes horrific incidents “The Tracey Fragments” seems like the kind of adolescent melodrama at once prurient and cautionary that has become a staple of young-adult literature. Tracey’s home life is a near-caricature of middle-class dysfunction. Dad (Ari Cohen) rages and drinks; Mom (Erin McMurtry) broods and chain-smokes; Tracey’s little brother Sonny (Zie Souwand) barks like a dog and then disappears. The shrink (Julian Richings dressed as a woman) is not much help." a chronicle of florid self-pity justified by arbitrary cruelty. Instead it is fierce enigmatic and affecting. Some of this has to do with Ms. Page who seems to be everywhere these days in the wake of “Juno” (which was filmed after “The Tracey Fragments”)  and who brilliantly embodies precocious intelligence under various forms of duress. While the full range of trauma that befalls Tracey does not seem entirely plausible Ms. Page is never less than convincing." as the usual mean-girl humiliations sink to Sadean depths of abasement and Tracey’s crush on a dreamy new boy reaches a pitch of longing matched in the songs (by Broken Social Scene and others) that adorn the soundtrack. The drab city into which Tracey descends in search of Sonny is a purgatory of monsters losers and freaks. It is hard to say glimpsing Tracey wrapped in a filthy curtain muttering to herself at the back of a bus whether she has joined their ranks or fallen victim to their depredations." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09poul.html
“Poultrygeist: Night of the Chicken Dead” is not for every taste. But within the context of its genre  —  the satirical sexploitation zombie chicken gross-out musical extravaganza  —  it is just about as perfect as a film predicated on the joys of projectile vomiting and explosive diarrhea can be. Directed with finger-licking gusto by Lloyd Kaufman the irrepressible co-founder of Troma Entertainment “Poultrygeist” plays like a grindhouse analogue to the sloppy psychosexual provocations of the performance artist Paul McCarthy and is in its lowbrow way every bit as liberating." and as might be expected of a fast-food restaurant built atop an American Indian burial ground things are going to hell. Outside a group of protesters led by the frequently topless Collegiate Lesbians Against Mega-Conglomerations (CLAM) vents its outrage at the perpetuators of the chicken holocaust." Paco Bell (Khalid Rivera) has met with an “accident” while surreptitiously adding his own special sauce to a mélange of fetid chicken parts and Carl Jr. (Caleb Emerson) is lethally impaled by a mop after attempting some hanky-panky with the reanimated corpse of a slimy roaster." Kate Graham (Wendy) Allyson Sereboff (Micki) Robin L. Watkins (Gen. Lee Roy) Rose Ghavami (Humus) Khalid Rivera (Paco Bell) and Caleb Emerson (Carl Jr.)." ” shrieks the burqa-clad line cook Humus (Rose Ghavami) “has declared jihad on us all!”" Dan Bova and Mr. Kaufman; director of photography Brendan Flynt; edited by Mr. Friedman; music by Duggie Banas and Jason  (Shack)  Kozun; production designers Alyssa Hill and Doug Markuson Jr.; produced by Andy Deemer and Kiel Walker; released by Troma Entertainment. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09oss.html
directed Michel Hazanavicius and starring Jean Dujardin as Agent 117 (also known as Hubert Bonisseur de la Bath) departs from the Bond model by pointedly spoofing its hero and his worldview. Sent to Egypt in the tense prelude to the Suez crisis of 1956 Hubert is blithely ignorant of that country’s history and culture as well as shockingly retrograde in his treatment of women (perhaps not so shockingly really). The satire to which he is subjected nonetheless has an air of scolding didacticism. Bérénice Béjo as his local foil and love interest takes up the pedagogical burden. We’re all fond of Hubert but we’re also so much more enlightened." with English subtitles) by Jean-François Halin based on the OSS 117 novels by Jean Bruce; director of photography Guillaume Schiffman; edited by Reynald Bertrand; music by Ludovic Bource and Kamel Ech-Cheikh; production designer Maamar Ech-Cheikh; produced by Eric Altmayer and Nicolas Altmayer; released by Music Box Films.  Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes. This film is not rated." Nest of Spies" a k a OSS 117) Bérénice Béjo (Larmina) Aure Atika (Princess Al Tarouk) Philippe Lefèbvre (Jack) Constantin Alexandrov (Setine) and Saïd Amadis (Egyptian spokesman)." Los Angeles San Francisco and Seattle." Nest of Spies” might be described as a French equivalent of James Bond. Or even a precursor since the first novel in which he appears predates Ian Fleming’s “Casino Royale” by a few years. But the template is basically the same: a dashing agent seducing scheming and shooting his way through cold war trouble spots in the service of a fading imperial power." however the techniques of action filmmaking appear to have stalled. Not that “Cairo Nest of Spies” is meant to be a thriller but even as a self-consciously anachronistic knockabout farce it rarely rises to the level of wit either verbal or physical manifested by the old “Get Smart” series. That  syndication staple will be updated this summer in a big-screen version starring Steve Carell. If you can’t wait and you don’t mind subtitles and some rather heavy-handed stabs at contemporary geopolitical relevance “OSS 117” may tide you over." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09nois.html
Helen (Bridget Moynahan) a cellist throws him out of the house and he loses his job. As his crusade widens he leaves cards at the scenes of his crimes identifying himself as “the Rectifier.”" a sultry freelance journalist and Russian immigrant who becomes his girlfriend and persuades him to push for a referendum banning car alarms. His campaign irks  the mayor Rheinhardt Schneer (William Hurt) a cynical power monger who offers Ekaterina a job." Andrij Parekh; edited by Lee Percy and Julie Carr; music by Phillip Johnston; production designer Kelly McGehee; produced by Susan Hoffman and Mr. Bean; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." a Manhattan lawyer with a short fuse. Rushing into the street one evening he gleefully vandalizes the offending vehicle." whose cacophonous soundtrack when turned up conjures your worst nightmare of sirens car alarms jackhammers and sundry aural assaults is a one-trick film that rapidly wears out its welcome. Its performances are discordant. If Mr. Robbins makes David a subversive rebel hero Mr. Hurt’s mayor is a buffoon from a “Saturday Night Live” sketch." Bridget Moynahan (Helen Owen) Margarita Levieva (Ekaterina) William Baldwin (mayor’s chief of staff) and William Hurt (Mayor Rheinhardt Schneer)." “Noise ” which Mr. Bean has called partly autobiographical is the second part of a projected “fanatic trilogy”  that began with “The Believer ” a deep troubling portrait of a Jewish neo-Nazi. “Noise” is shallow and loud. As it lurches unsteadily between drama and comedy you have to wonder to what degree Mr. Robbins an actor famous for his political activism is here simply because he shares Mr. Bean’s outrage." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09fron.html
Tex." ” “Calvaire ” “Inside”) this one owes a debt to the modern American slasher flick the original “Texas Chain Saw Massacre ” among many others though “Frontier(s)” adds an amusingly glib and timely political twist to its wholesale carnage." the movie quiets to an anxious hum during the ride out of Paris only to rev up again after two of the four refugees Tom (David Saracino) and Farid (Chems Dahmani) arrive at the hostel where they are greeted by a family — a sullen Ilsa the She Wolf type Gilberte (Estelle Lefébure); a jittery mouse Klaudia (Amélie Daure); and the thuggish Goetz (Samuel Le Bihan) whose agitation portends a terribly uncomfortable stay." spookily effective) Father and his brood do their creative worst to the visitors who are soon joined by Yasmine (Karina Testa) and Alex (Aurélien Wiik) in a smack-down between France’s Arab youth and its white fascists. Although at times Mr. Gens veers dangerously close to the unpardonable with images that evoke the Holocaust too strongly “Frontier(s)” finally works because its shivers are as plausible as they are outrageous." Karina Testa (Yasmine) Aurélien  Wiik (Alex) David Saracino (Tom) Chems Dahmani (Farid) Estelle Lefébure (Gilberte) Amélie Daure (Klaudia) Jean-Pierre Jorris (Le Von Geisler) Maud Forget (Eva) and Patrick Ligardes (Karl)." contemporary gross-out also has some ideas visual and otherwise wedged among its sanguineous drips swaying meat hooks and whirring table saw." though nothing provokes chills quite like the racism spewed by the family’s dear old demented dad (an unnerving Jean-Pierre Jorris) whose heavy patriarchal hand comes sheathed in a black glove." though a handful of characters have to escape the violent tumult of Paris which has been torn apart by a right-wing election triumph." these young attractive urban refugees are soon motoring along desolate byways that lead  straight to the Bates Motel or rather its French equivalent which in this case is ominously called a hostel. Happily this dive isn’t run by Eli Roth but by Xavier Gens whose first American release was the Euro-trashy English-language thriller “Hitman” (2007) a big-screen adaptation of a video game complete with a relentless contract killer and scores of dead." ” as he did in “Hitman ” which leaves him free to rummage through the horror movie storehouse. The new film recycles various clichés — an exploding head; bodies on meat hooks; deathly pale scuttling critters; and one whacked-out family — but with flair and tight timing." with English subtitles) by Mr. Gens; director of photography Laurent Barès; edited by Carlo Rizzo; music by Jean-Pierre Taieb; production designer Jérémie Streliski; produced by Laurent Tolleron; released by Lionsgate. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09fall.html
and paid for out of the pocket of its co-writer and director Tarsem Singh “The Fall” is a genuine labor of love  —  and a real bore. The story takes place once upon a time in a picturesque Los Angeles hospital where a pudgy Romanian 5-year-old named Alexandria (Catinca Untaru) convalesces from a broken arm. Befriending her fellow patient Roy Walker (Lee Pace) a movie stuntman with busted legs and a cracked spirit Alexandra sits enthralled as Roy relates an epic tale of colorful heroes seeking revenge on the nefarious Governor Odious (Daniel Caltagirone). The details of this saga a threadbare patchwork of postcard exoticism turgid characterizations stilted duels and lackluster spectacle are projected via the imagination of a little girl cognizant it would seem of the full repertory of high-gloss empty-headed pictorialism deployed by corporate advertising." Nico Soultanakis and Mr. Singh based on the film “Yo Ho Ho ” written by Valeri Petrov; director of photography Colin Watkinson; edited by Robert Duffy; production designer Ged Clarke; music by Krishna Levy; produced by Mr. Singh; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 56 minutes." Justine Waddell (Nurse Evelyn/Sister Evelyn) Catinca Untaru (Alexandria) and Daniel Caltagirone (Sinclair/Governor Odious)." the film’s mild fantasy violence scarcely warrants so restrictive a rating." as the filmmaker prefers to be called made his name marketing soft drinks and sneakers and “The Fall” bids to sell its audience on a visionary quest full of romance intrigue fabulous sights and fantastic creatures (Charles Darwin swimming elephants white people with dreadlocks). It’s strictly bargain bin." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09bloo.html
” the director Bruce Burgess humbly states. “I’m just a filmmaker who is fascinated by the huge implications of this story.” He also seems to be more than a little fascinated with himself." structured like a traditional mystery is only moderately suspenseful partly because there is of course no resolution. By the end Mr. Burgess may have bought his own evidence but it won’t be as easy a sell to less credulous viewers." he appears on screen often in close-up while interviewing researchers authors academics and professed members of the secret society known as the Priory of Sion. He’s also front and center as he and a newfound partner the British adventure-seeker Ben Hammott follow a series of leads across France uncovering fresh possibly revelatory evidence including the mummified remains of a woman — could it be Mary Magdalene? — and a buried chest containing ancient artifacts." one that is gospel to some and totally ludicrous to others." directed and narrated by Bruce Burgess; director of photography Sebastian Rich; edited by Daniel E. Brown; music by Miriam Cutler; produced by René Barnett; released by Cinema Libre Studio. In English and French with English subtitles. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09bill.html
Peter Collister; production designer Bruce Curtis; produced by John Penotti Fisher Stevens and Matthew Rowland; released by First Look Studios. At the Village East Second Ave. at 12th St. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." “Meet Bill” is little more than an extended beat-down. “You have to swallow it ” says his despicable brother-in-law at a family dinner. He’s referring to the buckshot in Bill’s duck but he could be summarizing his entire life." “Meet Bill” is really about losing your mind. Absorbing most of the punishment is the solid Mr. Eckhart — an actor more suited to corporate shark than bungling cuckold — though even Jessica Alba inspires pity for her glancing role as a lingerie saleswoman. (In one particularly pointless and creepy scene her character enjoys a private display of women’s underwear — modeled by a teenage boy.)" Jessica Alba (Lucy) Elizabeth Banks (Jess) Timothy Olyphant (Chip Johnson) Logan Lerman (the Kid) Todd Louiso (John Jr.) and Kristen Wiig (Jane Whitman)" ” an imperative to which the only sane response is: No thanks." drugs on cue and doughnuts on the brain." the directors Melisa Wallack and Bernie Goldmann have created a movie as spineless and dithering as its benighted namesake. A sad-sack executive for his father-in-law’s bank Bill (Aaron Eckhart) hates his unexciting job unflattering hair and unwieldy paunch. Discovering his brittle wife (Elizabeth Banks) in flagrante with an oily newsman (Timothy Olyphant) Bill realizes that there’s more to life than a furtive Snickers habit. Following the sugar in his bloodstream he applies for a doughnut franchise." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09baby.html
sacrificing continuity and character development to whip the plot forward. And Cynthia Nixon is wasted in the role of Michael’s prim wife Gail." a new recruit who balks at paying Shirley a percentage and steals her clients and by the emotional instability of Nadine’s half sister Brenda (Louisa Krause) who begins to come apart after being given Ecstasy at a weekend orgy. As the war escalates the director David Ross loses control of his volatile material which eventually blows up in his face." Katherine Waterston (Shirley) Cynthia Nixon (Gail) Andy Comeau (Jerry) Denis O’Hare (Stan) Halley Wegryn Gross (Nadine) Louisa Krause (Brenda) and Lauren Birkell (Melissa)." “The Babysitters” has the makings of an incisive satire of greed and lust in suburbia. Katherine Waterston (a daughter of Sam) portrays Shirley Lyner a cool-headed high school honors student and baby sitter who stumbles into an affair with her employer Michael Beltran (a miscast John Leguizamo). A middle-aged advertising executive who feels guilty about their first stolen kiss while taking her home Michael overtips her. When they eventually have sex he gives her $200. This paves the way for the enterprising Shirley to enlist her best friend Melissa (Lauren Birkell) as a “baby sitter” for  Michael’s pal Jerry (Andy Comeau). Before long Shirley is running a teenage prostitution ring and demanding 20 percent of her girls’ earnings." Michael McDonough; edited by Zene Baker; music by Chad Fischer; production designer Ray Kluga; produced by John Leguizamo Kathy DeMarco Cora Olson Jennifer Dubin and Jason Dubin; released by Peace Arch and Upload Films. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." language and some drug use involving teenagers." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09vice.html
but Mr. Tarantino’s influence prevails in the cinematography by Andrzej Sekula of “Dogs”; in the abundant epithets and expletives; and in the climactic “Dogs”-style standoff. The film is also dedicated to Chris Penn Sean’s brother who was in “Dogs” and died in 2006. But missing regrettably is that movie’s inventiveness clarity and wit." best known as the sadistic Mr. Blonde in “Reservoir Dogs ” has  appeared in his share of B movies and “Vice” won’t catapult him to the A list. But the film a muddled disposable crime thriller has modest merits." like “Reservoir Dogs ”  by Quentin Tarantino) and their rapport here is palpable. The gruff Mr. Madsen is looking increasingly distended; Ms. Hannah her vertical face under a mop of black hair is a terse goth vision. Her features unlike his have gained complexity with age and Ms. Hannah immersed in an earthy character for once isn’t paraded as a prop." strong and sexual content and some graphic nudity." a cop in a tailspin since his wife died.   He takes part in an undercover heroin deal that unravels and later it is discovered that some of the drugs have been stolen presumably by a member of his team. As his colleagues are murdered one by one he’s desperate to nail the turncoat. Max trusts only his partner Sampson (Mykelti Williamson) who is leery of Max’s  hard-living ways and a female officer Salt (Daryl Hannah)." Andrzej Sekula; edited by Kelly Herron; music by Cliff Martinez; production designer Michael Nemirsky; produced by Matthew Robert Kelly; released by 41 Inc. In Manhattan at the AMC Empire 25 234 West 42nd Street. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. WITH: Michael Madsen (Max Walker) Daryl Hannah (Salt) Mykelti Williamson (Sampson) and Mark Boone Junior (Bugsby)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09vega.html
but are now often digital and displayed on monitors which may affect quality control. Because unless you’re David Fincher and a genius or an obsessive-compulsive it may be easier to ignore your mistakes when they look like specks on a computer monitor. Or as Robert Elswit the cinematographer for Paul Thomas Anderson’s “There Will Be Blood ” which used traditional dailies said on digitalproducer.com: “The other great thing about seeing film dailies is that you can’t kid yourself about focus and all the other technical issues that can come back to bite you.”" “What Happens in Vegas” recycles a plot — a separated couple reunite — that will be familiar to anyone who’s had the pleasure of watching films like “The Awful Truth” and “It Happened One Night.” The philosopher Stanley Cavell anointed this subgenre of 1930s and 1940s delights comedies of remarriage stories driven by the effort to get the couple back together and involving what he terms overcoming skepticism. The couple aren’t  sure if reuniting is a good idea but do so anyway as when Rosalind Russell warily eyeballs Cary Grant at the end of “His Girl Friday” and says right after he plants a wet one: “I’m just a fool. That’s what I am. I know what it’s going to be like.”" ” one of those junky time-wasters that routinely pop up in movie theaters won’t make you laugh much or at all. (Once was enough for me.) But if you know anything about the art or have ever marveled at how even the most generic of old B movies look pretty good (they were usually in focus for starters) you may wonder how a major studio like 20th Century Fox could release something this crudely manufactured with its graceless setups unstable lensing and ghastly lighting. It also makes you wonder if executives at studios look at dailies much less can hear the poetry of the English language." ” but because its director Tom Vaughan brings nothing of interest to the movie including filmmaking there isn’t anything to say other than to note its insulting ugliness and ineptitude. The badly matched Cameron Diaz and Ashton Kutcher  mug wildly waving their limbs like upturned beetles. Ms. Diaz is particularly ill served by the material and the production; she’s harshly at times brutally lighted and often unflatteringly costumed. It’s disheartening that Ms. Diaz doesn’t seem to realize that there’s no upside to a role that strips away her dignity even as it peels off her clothes especially when she’s playing the shrew. It’s no wonder Mr. Kutcher looks so relaxed." and we do too having been given a glimpse of that happily ever after in the rat-a-tat of the couple’s wisecracking romancing. There are no wisecracks in Dana Fox’s screenplay for “What Happens in Vegas ” just insults yucky yuks (“I threw up in my purse”) and exposition. The couple strangers who marry during a Vegas drunk and stay together to hold on to a fat casino payout enter without a shared history or much personality. They learn to live as a couple through mutual abuse and pranks: he removes the toilet seat and she solicits some “sluts” to tempt him into contract-breaking infidelity. The cynicism about human beings (us included) reeks as much as the filmmaking." Matthew Leonetti; edited by Matthew Friedman; music by Christophe Beck; production designer Stuart Wurtzel; produced by Michael Aguilar Shawn Levy Jimmy Miller and Arnon Milchan; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." Ashton Kutcher (Jack Fuller) Rob Corddry (Steve  Hader) Treat Williams (Jack Fuller Sr.) Dennis Miller (Judge Whopper) and Lake Bell (Tipper)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09spee.html
and the teen-idol charisma of the South Korean pop star Rain (he plays another daredevil driver) is wasted. Mobsters detectives sportscasters and ruthless rival racers all parade across the screen but none of them generate the sparks of humor danger energy or nobility that would ignite a sense of pop magic. “Speed Racer” goes nowhere and you’d be amazed how long the trip can take." some of what you see in “Speed Racer” is indeed beautiful (as is the slyly old-fashioned orchestral score by Michael Giacchino). The colors pop off the screen as if someone had burst a giant bag of digital Skittles. Look at those red socks young Speed is wearing! Did you ever see a dress as yellow as the one on Susan Sarandon? (She plays Speed’s mom. John Goodman is his dad.) Or a classroom so brilliantly orange? These hues occur nowhere in nature. And I’ll grant that it is mildly interesting to sit back and contemplate the philosophical and artistic implications of having human actors populate a completely synthetic environment in which the familiar laws of optics and physical movement no longer apply." come to think of it spend a pleasant hour in a museum looking at still images and short looping video installations culled from the hectic 2-hour-15-minute morass of this movie. And there may be a perverse integrity in the way the Wachowskis approach the material which is to focus relentlessly on visual style while dispensing almost entirely with credible emotion or intelligible narrative. But this would be an easier case to make if the visual style itself were not so busy and incoherent." faithfully replicated from the old cartoons — move. When it comes to storytelling “Speed Racer” has nothing in common with its title. Not only does it surpass the grinding tedium of “The Matrix Revolutions ” but it does so with far less excuse. Back in the early years of this century it was possible to pretend that the grim-faced expository noodling of the later “Matrix” movies was the vehicle for profound insights into — well something. Go look it up on Wikipedia." surely a subject that cries out for linearity simplicity velocity. Instead the first half-hour layers flashbacks with portentous foreshadowings generating pointless confusion about who is doing what and why. After his beloved older brother Rex is killed in an accident — or is he? — Speed (Emile Hirsch) is wooed by the oleaginous head of the Royalton company (Roger Allam) and also by Trixie (Christina Ricci)." I suppose we could subject them to Warner Brothers’ new live-action feature film also called “Speed Racer ” which was written and directed by Andy and Larry Wachowski the maestros of “The Matrix.” Like so many other expensive technologically elaborate big-screen adaptations of venerable pop-culture staples this movie sets out to honor and refresh a youthful enthusiasm from the past and winds up smothering the fun in self-conscious grandiosity. The childhood experience the Wachowskis evoke is not the easy delight of lolling in the den watching one cartoon after another but rather the squirming tedium of sitting in the back seat on an endless family car trip your cheek taking on the texture of the vinyl seat as some grown-up lectures you on the beauty of the passing scenery." to be sure some vague intimations of an allegory about the tension between art and commerce between the mystical love of racing for its own sake and the mercenary impulse to subordinate that love to the profit motive. But this parable would be more compelling if “Speed Racer” were not so transparently trying to have it both ways to be at once profoundly visionary and punchily commercial and failing on both counts." David Tattersall; edited by Zach Staenberg and Roger Barton; music by Michael Giacchino; production designer Owen Paterson; produced by the Wachowski Brothers Joel Silver and Grant Hill; released by Warner Brothers. Running time: 2 hours 15 minutes." their mouths never quite moving in sync with the dialogue; those bright colors and semiabstract backgrounds; those endless episodic story lines. Whether we knew it or not the series was a primer in the aesthetics of Japanese animation the love of which we could later pass along to our children." the colors are hot the set design is cool and the sidekick chimpanzee is cute but the action sequences — the hyperreal video-game kineticism on which the Wachowskis’ reputation for virtuosity has rested — are chaotic and nonsensical. The sleek computer-animated racecars flip jump and slide from side to side but few of their feats elicit anything like the amazement or surprise of say watching moderately skilled teenage skateboarders in a parking lot. To be truly sensational action needs to make sense and to convey the tension and grace of real physical movement however fanciful the objects in motion may be." Christina Ricci (Trixie) John Goodman (Pops Racer) Susan Sarandon (Mom Racer) Paulie Litt (Spritle) Roger Allam (Royalton) Rain (Taejo Togokhan) and Matthew Fox (Racer X)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09refu.html
weakening the punch of a remarkable story previously unexplored in such cinematic depth. More often than not the filmmaking style leans toward the generic a shame when the subject matter is anything but." “Refusenik ” named after the Soviet Jews  who were denied the right to emigrate and persecuted for asking is tough to beat. Sadly it falls short as entertainment because of the plodding overly studious approach of the director Laura Bialis." directed and produced by Laura Bialis; directors of photography John Ealer and Sarah Levy; edited by Allan Holzman and Tchavdar Georgiev; music by Charles Bernstein; produced by Ms. Bialis and Stephanie S. Howard; released by Abramorama and the Foundation for Documentary Projects. In English Russian and Hebrew with English subtitles. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 57 minutes. This film is not rated." the refuseniks turned to activism embarking on what would become a 30-year campaign for freedom. Joined in the 1960s by supporters from the United States Canada France and Britain their movement eventually came to represent  grass-roots activism at its most effective." some in the form of “tourist” videos that were smuggled out of the Soviet Union and a timeline chronicling anti-Semitism  there are also featured." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09memo.html
the film becomes an exploration of the way empty souls will fill themselves with whatever is at hand even profound pain. For Lukas a tragic identity is better than no identity at all." Richard Rutkowski; edited by Curtiss Clayton; music by Ted Reichman; production designer Marika van Adelsberg; produced by Mr. Kofman and Ms. van Adelsberg; released by Seventh Art Releasing. At Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village (212) 255-8800. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." ” a strange and melancholy journey to the heart of madness a rootless young man finds meaning in the horrors of a stolen past." Rachel Miner (Mira) and Jerry Adler (Mr. Zweig)." “The Memory Thief” is the first feature by the playwright Gil Kofman and an attempt to counter Hollywood’s formulaic approach to the Holocaust drama. Using actual survivor testimonies he confronts the ghoulish underbelly of the human impulse to sympathize addressing our fascination with suffering in eloquent often wordless scenes." a lonely Los Angeles tollbooth operator life is literally passing him by. But when an irascible Holocaust survivor introduces him to the world of oral history Lukas’s empathy quickly becomes obsession. Soon he is volunteering to tape survivor testimonies purchasing a mezuza and prayer shawl and insinuating himself into the lives of a Jewish medical student (Rachel Miner) and her troubled father (Jerry Adler). Like a morbid variant on the celebrity stalker Lukas has discovered his purpose." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09enga.html
Bruce Worrall; edited by Pamela Benwick Richard Benwick and Ms. Carr-Wiggin; art director Ino Bonello; produced by David Gordian; released by Buccaneer Films and Palisades Pictures. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes. This film is not rated." Tcheky Karyo (Alex) Daniel Stern (Jack) and Valerie Mahaffey (Grace)." an uptight librarian drags her stodgy husband Jack (Daniel Stern) to Malta the vacation is an excuse to rendezvous with her first love (Tcheky Karyo). Leaving Jack to fiddle with his cherished jigsaw puzzles the erstwhile lovers bask in memories of transcendent sex and world-changing ambitions but when Jack encounters a boozy divorcée (the marvelous Valerie Mahaffey) Julia feels the need to defend her territory." “A Previous Engagement” aims at middle-aged women with the subtlety of a pitch for bladder-control medication. Take a frustrated wife and her sexually inept husband add a dollop of temptation (a French accent can’t hurt) and plunk it all down in an exotic location. The world may roll on but the dreams of the everyday housewife are as predictable as the tides." Ms. Stevenson — whose gift for romantic yearning was cemented in “Truly Madly Deeply” — is ill used by a farcical script and cruel lighting. The unexpected hedonism of the ending fails to mitigate a dispiriting commitment to conventional wisdom: namely that for a woman the best place to find fulfillment is in the arms of a man. Sigh." clearly." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/09/movies/09dile.html
based on Ms. Gordimer’s novel “A World of Strangers”; director of photography Henning Kristiansen and Arne Lagercranz; music by Gideon Nxumalo and Max Roach; produced by Mr. Carlsen and Bent Christensen. Shown with a 10-minute animated film by John and Faith Hubley “Adventure of an * ” at the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." the liberal-minded Briton Toby Hood (Ivan Jackson) finds his social position compromised after striking up a friendship with a black  man (Zakes Mokae)." ” his debut  feature from 1962. Screening as part of Jazz Score the Museum of Modern Art’s  survey of movies with  original jazz compositions this black-and-white drama gets a blast of vitality from a soundtrack hopped up on Roach’s bebop and the infectious swing of Gideon Nxumalo a South African composer adept in the style of indigenous jazz known as marabi." neo-realist mode and what interest adheres in the material nowadays is largely of an archival quality. Mr. Carlsen finds eloquent testimony to life under apartheid in the documentary elements of his picture in the sights and sounds of the Johannesburg streets in the faces and gestures and social rituals of both Africans and Afrikaners." Ivan Jackson (Toby Hood) Evelyn Frank (Anna Louw) Marijke Haakman (Cecil Rowe) and Gideon Nxumalo (Sam Mofokenzazi)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/07/movies/07batt.html
a former Marine corporal turned actor) a brutalized young squad leader who’s trying to protect his men and his own increasingly besieged mind. (Corporal Ramirez has been based on Staff Sgt. Frank D. Wuterich the enlisted marine who was the squad leader during the Haditha massacre though it’s unclear how much the character owes to the real man.) The movie which was shot in good-looking if not the glossiest digital video (the trace of digital artifacts adds to the documentary vibe) opens with a succession of young men addressing the camera with varying degrees of cynicism and confusion voicing the same question that is repeatedly intoned back home: Why are we here?" pugnaciously personal documentaries like “Biggie and Tupac” and “Aileen: Life and Death of a Serial Killer ” this new film is a dramatization complete with actors and a semblance of a screenplay. Shot in Jordan with mostly nonprofessional performers including several former marines who fought in Iraq (including in Falluja) and many more Iraqi war refugees the film is located at the familiar intersection of nonfiction and fiction where raw documentary grit receives an imaginary glaze.  The Middle East dust in this film looks chokingly authentic because much like the prostrated Iraqi women keening over their dead and much like the battle scar that runs along one marine’s upper leg like a zipper it is." the victims and the insurgents inexorably together — Mr. Broomfield maintains a level of cool detachment throughout. That’s to the good of the movie which though technically exemplary falters dramatically on occasion becoming dangerously close to overheated  whenever the characters speak  for any length. The performers apparently did a fair amount of improvisation and too often their talk veers into exposition which however heartfelt and true paradoxically sounds (badly) scripted. At times there is a kind of therapeutic quality to the entire enterprise almost as if the marines the Iraqis and Mr. Broomfield were collectively trying to work through a nightmare from which none have awakened." ” the British filmmaker Nick Broomfield revisits a wretched chapter of the war in Iraq. On Nov. 19 2005 marines stationed in Haditha a Euphrates River valley city northwest of Baghdad killed 24 Iraqi civilians including at least 10 women and children from toddler age up who were in their homes.  The reasons for the killings remain in dispute though not this evidence: most victims died from close-range gunfire and at least five were shot in the head. After various investigations murder charges against four marines were dropped; one still faces reduced charges." with English subtitles) by Mr. Broomfield Marc Hoeferlin and Anna Telford; director of photography Mark Wolf; edited by Stuart Gazzard and Ash Jenkins; produced by Mr. Broomfield and Ms. Telford. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. This film is not rated." given how subjective his documentaries skew “Battle for Haditha” isn’t a jeremiad against the war the American administration or even the quick-triggered marines. Rather with dry-eyed intelligence he takes the killings at Haditha and returns the incident to the historical moment from which it has been removed by politics and propaganda. He points fingers suggests reasons and explores rationales showing sympathy for the war-ravaged marines without letting them off the hook. He introduces the insurgents who planted the bomb that killed a marine apparently precipitating the massacre by the dead man’s squad. And then with sickening realism he shows how those innocent Iraqis caught between the insurgents and the marines died." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02tear.html
a small-time triad thug by Ngor (Maggie Cheung) his cousin from the country. As the movie opens Ngor has come to crash on Wah’s couch while awaiting a doctor’s appointment for a nagging ailment. Given the tone instantly established of moody underworld melodrama she has also come for ill-fated romance and thus ensues a brooding love affair and poetic arrangements of glassware." back-alley beat downs and semiautomatic flares in the neon nights but it’s the rapt little interludes that arrest attention: an aspirin tablet dissolving in a bottle of water a woman lingering in the fluorescent shadows of a ferry terminal a mysterious cut away from lovers in bed to a pair of street lamps curving over an empty country road a modest tracking shot along a row of drinking glasses set upon a Formica tabletop." with English subtitles) and directed by Wong Kar-wai; director of photography Andrew Lau; edited by Pi Tak Cheong; music by Ting Yat Chung and Teddy Robin Kwan; production designer William Chang; produced by Alan Tang and Rover Tang; released by Kino International. At the BAMcinématek BAM Rose Cinemas 30 Lafayette Avenue at Ashland Place Fort Greene Brooklyn. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." “As Tears Go By” is from first frame to last obviously and exquisitely a movie by Wong Kar-wai." ” she murmurs in a voice-over as Wah reads the note she left before boarding a ferry back home “so I hid one of them. One day when you need that glass give me a call. I’ll tell you where it’s hidden.”" deeply intuitive impulses.  Unpersuasive as drama “Tears” is the first and last Wong movie touched by any feel of the obligatory. Mr. Lau and Mr. Cheung give committed if slightly cartoonish turns. A baby-face Ms. Cheung is affecting in an underimagined role. By the time she joined  Mr. Wong  again in “Days of Being Wild ” her director had mastered his feel for the eloquence of uninflected faces caught just so in the light. And everything else." Maggie Cheung (Ngor) Jacky Cheung (Fly) Kau Lam (Kung) Alex Man (Tony) and Ronald Wong (Site)." “Days of Being Wild” (1991) the first in an uninterrupted series of triumphs extending  from “Ashes of Time” (1994) to “2046” (2004). “As Tears Go By” heralds a new vision not yet in perfect focus. Easily summarized the plot is entirely secondhand. Wah is burdened by Fly (Jacky Cheung) a sad-sack would-be  gangster with a bad attitude and worse luck. Structured around an increasingly disastrous set of confrontations with rival triad goons the movie finds its true purpose in a tone (dreamy fatalism) a texture (impressionist grunge) and a pose (so so cool)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02fugi.html
Gregory Middleton; edited by Wiebke von Carolsfeld; music by Nikos Kypourgos; production designer Matthew Davies; produced by Robert Lantos; released by IDP/Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." understated performance as the film’s haunted protagonist Jakob Beer. As a terrified  9-year-old in Nazi-occupied Poland Jakob watched as soldiers slaughtered his parents and abducted his older sister.  Now a respected author and teacher Jakob remains shackled to memories that draw him ever inward and repel his high-spirited young wife Alex (a touching Rosamund Pike)." “Fugitive Pieces” feels remarkably soothing. In images rose-tinted and golden-toned this dreamy adaptation of Ann Michaels’s acclaimed novel transforms a wrenching Holocaust-survival drama into the cinematic equivalent of warm milk and honey." ” he allows in voice-over; and it’s a measure of Mr. Dillane’s  talent (recently  seen in the role of Thomas Jefferson in the HBO series “John Adams”) that his character never becomes a self-pitying bore. As if aware of this possibility the writer and director Jeremy Podeswa (whose father is a Holocaust survivor) is disinclined to dawdle juggling three decades and as many countries with a sure hand and an eye for candy. When confronted by a laughing girl a summer shower and a ridiculously beautiful pair of strumpet-red sandals not even Jakob can remain ascetic for long." Rade Sherbedgia  (Athos) Rosamund Pike (Alex) Ayelet Zurer (Michaela) Robbie Kay (Young Jakob) and Ed Stoppard (Ben)." but the sightings of  Mr. Dillane’s naked buttocks  — however comely and plot-advancing — must have exceeded the PG-13 guidelines." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02xxy.html
with the aid of hormonal therapy has been living as a girl. But with the onset of adolescence her sexuality has begun to bloom and for reasons she never explains and perhaps couldn’t put into words she has recently stopped taking the drugs. Her deepest impulse is to be simply who s/he is." a giant squid and especially clownfish which exhibit behavior known as sequential hermaphroditism when the male changes sex and becomes female." directed by the Argentine filmmaker Lucía Puenzo and based on Sergio Bizzio’s short story “Cinismo ” is not a clinical case study though months of research went into its creation. It is a somber brooding study of Alex and her parents as they face the painful crossroads when adulthood looms. To help their child feel as normal as possible Alex’s parents have fled Argentina to a remote seaside enclave in Uruguay where her protective father Kraken (Ricardo Darín) works as a marine biologist." Valeria Bertuccelli (Suli) Germán Palacios (Ramiro) Carolina Peleritti (Erika) Martín Piroyansky (Alvaro) and Inés Efron (Alex)." it never seems pruriently exploitative. It sustains an unsettling mood of ambiguity that lingers long after the final credits." with English subtitles) by Ms. Puenzo based on a short story by Sergio Bizzio; director of photography Natasha Braier; edited by Alex Zito and Hugo Primero; music by Andrés Goldstein and Daniel Tarrab; produced by Luis Puenzo and Jose María Morales; released by Film Movement. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 31 minutes. This film is not rated." she is furiously reluctant to choose. And Ms. Efron’s thrashing performance conveys Alex’s complicated mixture of ambivalence and defiance." we eventually discover that she has a penis (unseen in the movie). Her masculinization may not yet be visible in facial hair and other signs but her male aggression has already landed her in trouble. As the story begins she has overreacted to the curiosity of a close male friend about her sexuality and has broken his nose." who enjoy it despite their anxiety afterward. That scene and everything leading up to it evoke a hyperaware sexual limbo in which you scrutinize the masculine and feminine components in the movie’s other characters and recognize the degree to which everyone has both." surreal “XXY” explores the world of Alex (Inés Efron) an intersex teenager — born with both male and female sex organs — navigating the treacherous emotional and hormonal rapids of uncertain gender." Ramiro (Germán Palacios); his wife Erika (Carolina Peleritti); and their skinny buck-toothed 16-year-old son Alvaro (Martín Piroyansky). The rapidly intensifying relationship between Alex and Alvaro who is sexually curious but not fully aware of his own gay tendencies is the movie’s dramatic crux. Will they make love? If so how? How will they feel afterward?" curious teenagers from the fishing village recognize that Alex is different and react with predictable cruelty. There is a near-rape scene in which several boys drag her into the dunes and pull off her pants to inspect her anatomy." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02ramb.html
the two boys meet cute if somewhat cruelly. A member of a Christian sect  that forbids television movies and apparently smiling Will is quietly sitting in a school hallway (while the rest of his class takes in some audiovisual instruction) when Lee erupts into his field of vision like a bomb. Having been ushered out of his classroom rather more rudely than Will (and to the robust cheering of his fellow students) Lee instantly bounces a ball off the other boy’s unsuspecting head creating a fatal attraction that starts off like Krazy Kat and Ignatz Mouse and soon morphs into something far softer. (Lee throws the ball hard but Mr. Jennings makes sure it doesn’t hurt too much.)" Will Poulter (Lee Carter) Jessica Stevenson (Mary Proudfoot) Neil Dudgeon (Joshua) Jules Sitruk (Didier Revol) and Ed Westwick (Lawrence Carter)." turning two wary children into blood brothers is Rambo. The movie-mad Lee who lives with his negligent older brother Lawrence (Ed Westwick) in a mausoleumlike manor next  to a nursing home (their absent mother is married to the facility’s owner) runs a steady video dubbing operation. He’s also making his own screen epic in hopes of winning a television contest. When this would-be DeMille accidentally introduces Will to Rambo the image of the tough guy serves as a shock to the sheltered (and fatherless) boy.  Rambo — invincible unyielding — liberates Will exciting his already effulgent imagination and creating a bond with Lee his first real friend. But Rambo also enslaves him making this introspective loner hungry for friendship and film alike." Jess Hall; edited by Dominic Leung; music by Joby Talbot; production designer Joel Collins; produced by Nick Goldsmith; released by Paramount Vantage. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." lightly sticky valentine to childhood the 1980s and the dawning of movie love “Son of Rambow” was written and directed by Garth Jennings and produced by Nick Goldsmith the duo behind the underappreciated fantasy “The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy” (2005). Like that film this one involves a snug community of oddballs and outcasts whose eccentricities pluck and fundamental good cheer have long been durable staples of British screen comedy. The beating heart of this particular grouping is Will Proudfoot (Bill Milner) a lonely child with a single mother (Jessica Stevenson) and an artistic itch whose fundamentalist faith  has made him a pariah at school second only to its resident bad boy the devilish Lee Carter (Will Poulter)." as it were of the comic British charmer “Son of Rambow” is Sylvester Stallone at his fiercest and certainly his gruntiest.  Slathered in sweat and wearing a rag that circles his head like a tourniquet Mr. Stallone is instantly recognizable as the Reagan-era avenger who first materialized in the instantaneous 1982 camp classic “First Blood.” He rises from the screen like a phoenix from the ashes even if for the two boys at the center of “Son of Rambow ” who savor his every ponderous violent move he’s more of a muscle-bound Tinkerbell ushering them into a new world." ” Mr. Jennings keeps his busy pieces in harmonious play creating a miniaturized world as detailed painstakingly determined and insulated as an ant farm. He crams the frame with bright colors and comic bits of business; tosses in an interloper a French  Billy Idol  called Didier (Jules Sitruk); and makes room for the occasional melancholic stretch.  And although the film’s visual style feels more borrowed than organic there’s enough truth to Will and Lee’s actions — and to the uninflected touching performances of the two young leads — to keep the film humming along even when Mr. Jennings veers into sentimentality and lets one too many tear drop." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02lone.html
Samantha Morton (Marilyn Monroe) Denis Lavant (Charlie Chaplin) Esme Creed-Miles (Shirley Temple) James Fox (the Pope) Melita Morgan (Madonna) Jason Pennycooke (Sammy Davis Jr.) Richard Strange (Abraham Lincoln) Anita Pallenberg (the Queen) and Werner Herzog (Father Umbrillo)." ” which was filmed in Paris Scotland and Panama is divided into two distinct zones. In one an exuberant priest (Werner Herzog speaking of cinematic visionaries) supervises an order of nuns somewhere in the jungle and flies over remote settlements dropping food from a small plane. On one such mission a nun discovers she can fly a professed miracle that may have more to do with the power of film than with the presence of God." he finds a pope  (James Fox) a Queen Elizabeth II (Anita Pallenberg) a Sammy Davis Jr. (Jason Pennycooke) and a notably foul-mouthed Abraham Lincoln (Richard Strange) among others who tend sheep and think about putting on a big show." Marcel Zyskind; edited by Paul Zucker and Valdis Oskarsdottir; music by Jason Spaceman and the Sun City Girls; production designer Richard Campling; produced by Agnès B.; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. This film is not rated." and in any case this odd utopian experiment is soon undermined by jealousy livestock disease and worse. An undercurrent of persistent pain suggested in the title blossoms in the last part of the film as its low-key whimsy swerves surprisingly and not quite effectively into melodrama." the story does not quite cohere and perhaps it isn’t meant to. Mr. Korine who wrote “Mister Lonely” with his brother Avi seems to be more interested in the expressive power of pictures than in conventional psychology. And there will most likely be those who find his sensibility frustratingly hermetic morbidly preoccupied with the poetry of compositions and camera movements and archly detached from the emotional currents of the story." ” the new film by Harmony Korine as dreamlike. Dreams are often vague chaotic and dull and other people’s dreams are notoriously uninteresting. “Mister Lonely” is enigmatic its moods and meanings sometimes elusive in the way that dreams can be but nearly every frame is an image of arresting clarity and beauty. And even when it strays beyond the border of sense you can’t help accepting its logic and its truth much as you do when your unconscious spools pictures in your sleep." harsh and provocative and hard to shake. In defending “Julien Donkey-Boy” from the scorn of other critics Roger Ebert once remarked that Mr. Korine had “the soul of a real filmmaker ” a judgment that “Mister Lonely ” arriving nearly 10 years later decisively confirms. In richly colored wide-frame compositions that seem at once utterly natural and unspeakably strange Mr. Korine seems to conjure a strange haunted world. Or maybe stranger still he has uncovered a reality hidden in plain sight on the surface of everyday life." ” self-enclosed though it may be nonetheless demonstrates that Mr. Korine who showed his ability to shock and repel in earlier films also has the power to touch to unsettle and to charm. This is undoubtedly a small movie but it’s also more than that: it’s a small imperfect world." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02favo.html
” a dreary interminable drama written and directed by Eva Aridjis is exactly one-third of a good movie. That third is Frank Wood’s beautifully modulated and modest central performance as Lawrence a lonely bachelor with a beloved pooch and a washed-out life. Overwhelming it however are a limp story line and Ryan Donowho’s callow portrayal of Johnny the orphaned teenager whom Lawrence inadvisedly fosters." Ryan Donowho (Johnny) Paige Turco (Caroline) and Isidra Vega (Mariana)." Andrij Parekh; edited by Mathilde Bonnefoy; music by Danny Hole; production designer Edwige Geminel; produced by Ms. Aridjis and Heather Greene; released by Seventh Art Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes. This film is not rated." Lawrence a despondent photographer of pets and perps (he divides his time between  his studio and the police station) perks up. Within a few movie minutes however he finds himself nurturing not a rekindled romance but a bereft boy with serious behavioral problems. New Jersey must boast the speediest — and least rigorous — foster-parent approval process in the country." “The Favor” dances for our love in the chasm between Lawrence’s middle-aged inertia and Johnny’s youthful rebelliousness. But in the awkward hands of Mr. Donowho Johnny’s stealing drug dealing and casual violence seem less an opportunity for Lawrence to engage with life than to dabble in masochism. He should have adopted another dog." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02chin.html
submissive women and desexualized men and yellow-face routines courtesy of Asians as well as Caucasians. (Joan Chen sheepishly recalls working with a dialogue coach on the risible “Tai Pan” in order to achieve a proper  Chinese accent.) But there are also triumphs big and small: the surviving fragment of Marion Wong’s pioneering “The  Curse of Quan Gwon” (1916-1917); the success of the actress Nancy Kwan the cinematographer James Wong Howe and the director Wayne Wang. Fans of the impish droopy-faced character actor Victor Wong must await his rightful apotheosis elsewhere but “Hollywood Chinese” is a fine place to start understanding how to paraphrase Charlie Chan Representation like tea leaf in hot water: both need time for brewing." “Hollywood Chinese” surveys a century’s worth of Chinese-American actors and filmmakers visionaries and dragon ladies kung fu excellence and Fu Manchu insult Oscar winners and cliché mongers. Assembled by the filmmaker Arthur Dong it opens at the turn of the last century when nickelodeon titles like “Beheading of the Chinese Prisoner” (1900) exploited stereotypes of the violent inscrutable East and closes by congratulating Justin Lin for directing “The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift” (2006)." produced directed and edited by Arthur Dong; director of photography Hiroki Miyano; music by Mark Adler; released by DeepFocus Productions. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02viva.html
the results are suitably alienating and often funny. As an actress Ms. Biller has all the expressiveness of a block of wood but her attention to visual detail is extraordinarily vivid from the Kool-Aid-colored costumes to the supergraphics that zigzag across the sets. The production design in “Viva” is often more alive than the characters which nicely serves Ms. Biller’s rather overly embedded intellectual concerns.  Despite Barbi’s affection for her husband (Chad England) the characters all of whom mouth platitudes and even parrot advertising slogans view sex and one another in almost purely (impurely) consumerist terms. Yet while desperation and a critique lurk under all these garish surfaces neither emerges because Ms. Biller finally adores this milieu too much to tear it apart." “Viva” is a startlingly pitch-perfect reproduction of the kind of gauzy sex movies from the 1960s and early 1970s that preceded the hard-core revolution. Written and directed by Anna Biller who also stars as the title character — a doll of a 1972 housewife first known as Barbi — the film unwinds as a series of adventures  that take Barbi from swinging suburbia and backyard bacchanalias into the city and depravity. Despite the parallels with Sade’s “Justine” and the occasional lurid flourish the depravity never becomes remotely depraved because Ms. Biller despite her commitment to verisimilitude maintains an ironic detachment throughout — because she’s a Brechtian or a bad actress or perhaps both." Jared Sanford (Mark) Bridget Brno (Sheila) Chad England (Rick) Marcus DeAnda (Clyde) and John Klemantaski (Arthur)." directed and edited by Anna Biller; director of photography C. Thomas Lewis; production and costume designer Ms. Biller; produced by Ms. Biller; released by Anna Biller Productions. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 2 hours. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02iron.html
computer-aided visual effects these days are not so special. And who doesn’t have superpowers? Actually Iron Man doesn’t; his heroism is all handicraft elbow grease and applied intelligence. Those things account for the best parts of “Iron Man” as well." ” directed by Jon Favreau (“Elf ” “Zathura”) has the advantage of being an unusually good superhero picture. Or at least — since it certainly has its problems — a superhero movie that’s good in unusual ways. The film benefits from a script (credited to Mark Fergus Hawk Ostby Art Marcum and Matt Holloway) that generally chooses clever dialogue over manufactured catchphrases and lumbering exposition and also from a crackerjack cast that accepts the filmmakers’ invitation to do some real acting rather than just flex and glower and shriek for a paycheck." an Air Force officer played with good-humored sidekick weariness by Terrence Howard. The girl is one Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow also in evident good humor) Tony’s smitten ultracompetent assistant. His partner and sort-of mentor in Stark Enterprises is Obadiah Stane played by Jeff Bridges with wit and exuberance and — spoiler alert! — a shaved head." ” which clanks  into theaters today ahead of Hellboy Batman and the Incredible Hulk. This summer those guys are all in sequels or redos so Iron Man (a Marvel property not to be confused with the Man of Steel who belongs to DC and who’s taking a break this year) has the advantage of novelty in addition to a seasonal head start." ” in spite of the heavy encumbrances Tony must wear when he turns into the title character is distinguished by light touches and grace notes. The hardware is impressive don’t get me wrong but at these prices it had better be. If you’re throwing around a hundred million dollars and you have Batman and the Hulk on your tail you had better be sure that the arc reactors are in good working order and that the gold-titanium alloy suit gleams like new and flies like a bird." and Mr. Downey’s antic energy and emotional unpredictability bring out their agility and resourcefulness. Within the big crowded movements of this pop symphony is a series of brilliant duets that sometimes seem to have the swing and spontaneity of jazz improvisation: Mr. Downey and Ms. Paltrow on the dance floor; Mr. Downey and Mr. Howard drinking sake on an airplane; Mr. Downey and Shaun Toub working on blueprints in a cave; Mr. Downey and Mr. Bridges sparring over a box of pizza." somewhat in the manner of those sly studio-era craftsmen who kept their artistry close to the vest so the bosses wouldn’t confiscate it wears the genre paradigm as a light cloak rather than a suit of iron. Instead of the tedious moralizing pop-Freudian origin story we often get in the first installments of comic-book-franchise movies — childhood trauma; identity crisis; longing for justice versus thirst for revenge; wake me up when the explosions start — “Iron Man” plunges us immediately into a world that crackles with character and incident." none of it especially graphic or gruesome. Also Iron Man has sex and not with the suit on. But not completely naked either." of course. The hero must flex and furrow his brow; the bad guy must glower and scheme; the girl must shriek and fret. There should also be a skeptical but supportive friend. Those are the rules of the genre as unbreakable as the pseudoscientific principles that explain everything (An arc reactor! Of course!) and the Law of the Bald Villain. In “Iron Man” it all plays out more or less as expected from the trial-and-error building of the costume to the climactic showdown with lots of flying chasing and noisemaking in between. (I note that there is one sharp subversive surprise right at the very end.)" which is to say that it’s placed at the service of the actors (and the special-effects artists) who deftly toss it around and sometimes forget it’s there. One important twist seems glaringly arbitrary and unmotivated but this lapse may represent an act of carefree sabotage rather than carelessness. You know this ostensibly shocking revelation is coming and the writers know you know it’s coming so why worry too much about whether it makes sense? Similarly the patina of geopolitical relevance is worn thin and eventually discarded and Tony’s crisis of conscience when he discovers what his weapons are being used for is more of a narrative convenience than a real moral theme." Hawk Ostby Art Marcum and Matt Holloway based on the character created by Stan Lee Larry Lieber Don Heck and Jack Kirby; director of photography Matthew Libatique; edited by Dan Lebental; music by Ramin Djawadi; production designer J. Michael Riva; visual effects by John Nelson; produced by Avi Arad and Kevin Feige; released by Paramount Pictures and Marvel Entertainment. Running time: 2 hours 6 minutes." (Tony Stark) Terrence Howard (Rhodey) Jeff Bridges (Obadiah Stane) Shaun Toub (Yinsen) and Gwyneth Paltrow (Pepper Potts)." but it’s a bit closer than Gotham or Metropolis. We catch up with Tony Stark in dusty Afghanistan where he is enjoying a Scotch on the rocks in the back of an armored American military vehicle. Tony is a media celebrity a former M.I.T. whiz kid and the scion of a family whose company makes and sells high-tech weaponry. He’s also a bon vivant and an incorrigible playboy. On paper the character is completely preposterous but since Tony is played by Robert Downey Jr. he’s almost immediately as authentic and familiar — as much fun as much trouble — as your ex-boyfriend or your old college roommate. Yeah that guy." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02hono.html
Tom agrees in the hope that he can demonstrate how much he loves her and win her back. That  many assume his role means Tom must be gay makes for some wan humor." a rich handsome aristocrat with a brogue who galloped to her rescue when he spied her stranded in her car at a cattle crossing. Suddenly Tom realizes Hannah is the love of his life. But what can he do? He decides he should keep his mouth shut and strategize." it begins on a nasty note when Tom (Patrick Dempsey) the putative Mr. Right in this taming-of-the-rogue fable is introduced as a college boy wearing a hideous Bill Clinton mask and drunkenly bellowing for his Monica at a Halloween bacchanal." he snaps: “I don’t do back-to-backs. Two nights in a row; I don’t do that.” He also lives by the 24-hour rule: Never call a date until a full day has passed." but her character has no personality. The movie can’t begin to explain the unlikely friendship of Tom and Hannah for there is no rhyme or reason to it. If she were as bright as she is supposed to be she wouldn’t tolerate his churlish treatment of other women. But she doesn’t seem to notice." a fresh-faced director of acquisitions at the Metropolitan Museum of Art whom he has known since college. The two are such good pals that when Hannah tells him she has to go to Scotland for six weeks he whines “How can I live without you?”" Michelle Monaghan (Hannah) Kevin McKidd (Colin) Kathleen Quinlan (Joan) and Sydney Pollack (Thomas Sr.)." Deborah Kaplan and Harry Elfont based on a story by Mr. Sztykiel; director of photography Tony Pierce-Roberts; edited by Richard Marks; music by Rupert Gregson-Williams; production designer Kalina Ivanov; produced by Neal H. Moritz; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." as they say. Tom’s wealthy father (Sydney Pollack) has been married and divorced so many times that he can’t recall whether his new wife is his sixth or his seventh.  He is shown dressed up and heading toward the altar while frantically negotiating a pre-nup by cellphone with his bride-to-be who circles the block in a limousine with her lawyer." who at 42 is too old for his role does his best to infuse Tom with some boyish charm. Ms. Monaghan’s aura of fundamental niceness is the main reason that “Made of Honor” retains enough sweetness to satisfy the cotton-candy addicts. For true believers in fairy tales no romantic fantasy is too extravagant if the heroine is a sweetheart. The rest of us can sit there and roll our eyes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/02/movies/02belt.html
or not nearly enough helps explain why “Redbelt” — the title refers to a belt denoting the pinnacle of expertise   — never marshals its estimable parts its exciting fight sequences and juicy side characters (playfully played by Ricky Jay among others) into a transcendent whole. Although he exploits visual symbols effectively that shattered window included Mr. Mamet has yet to develop a filmmaking style that is anywhere near as expressive and effective as his writing. “You know the escape you know the escape ” Mike hypnotically repeats to Joe during his tussle with Snowflake. Some time later when Mike seems to have surrendered his principles he will scan the room looking for the escape that in a fundamental respect will elude Mr. Mamet." Emily Mortimer (Laura Black) Alice Braga (Sondra Terry) Tim Allen (Chet Frank) Jose Pablo Cantillo (Snowflake) Rodrigo Santoro (Bruno Silva) Ricky Jay (Marty Brown) Joe Mantegna (Jerry Weiss) Rebecca Pidgeon (Zena Frank) David Paymer (Richard) Max Martini (Joe Collins) and John Machado (Augusto Silva)." ” David Mamet has taken a sturdy B-movie conceit — a good man versus the bad world plus blood — tricked it out with his rhythms his corrosive words and misanthropy and come up with a satisfying unexpectedly involving B-movie that owes as much to old Hollywood as  to Greek tragedy. That may sound like a perilous combination but the film’s visual moderation contained scale and ambition keep it well tethered. It’s a fight film purely if not simply which of course also means it’s about the struggle to live." an almost messianic Los Angeles jujitsu instructor with a grave sense of purpose. With his  mouthy wife Sondra (Alice Braga) Mike runs a small Brazilian jujitsu academy in a nondescript part of town. He has money troubles but also loyal students like Joe (Max Martini strikingly effective) a cop with financial worries of his own. One evening after an aggressive tense class that ends with Joe locked in a chokehold by Mike’s oddly named assistant Snowflake (Jose Pablo Cantillo) a stranger (Emily Mortimer as Laura) bursts into the academy. A gun discharges and trouble ensues (as it must) along with assorted and progressively contrived complications." Robert Elswit; edited by Barbara Tulliver; music by Stephen Endelman; production designer David Wasco; produced by Chrisann Verges; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." which include a pampered movie star Chet Frank (Tim Allen); his wife Zena (Rebecca Pidgeon a k a Mrs. Mamet); and a producer Jerry Weiss (Joe Mantegna a Mamet regular). These characters collide with Mike’s world shortly after he saves Chet from a beating. (The star had gone slumming at a local dive.) Out of gratitude or perhaps curiosity Chet invites Mike and Sondra to dinner at his mansion where smiles and promises are served along with an intoxicating intimation of friendship. In an exuberant moment Mike tells the dinner party about one of his teaching methods which requires one student to assume a handicap — say by having an arm immobilized — before squaring off against an opponent." rather Mr. Mamet seems to be suggesting — that Mike’s arm is (figuratively)  tied behind his back. On the surface at least he appears handicapped by money: a business check has bounced and one of the academy’s  picture windows was shattered when that aforementioned gun went off. Yet Mike’s handicaps don’t register as internal a function of psychology or a sad historical event; there is no dead kitten in his background to invoke Mr. Mamet’s amusing metaphor for speeches that explain a character on the way to the denouement. In “Redbelt” a shot is fired a window is broken things happen. Action leads to action because as Mr. Mamet writes in his dead-kitten riff all that matters is “what happens next.”" particularly if you know that Mr. Mamet is echoing Aristotle’s idea that tragedy is an imitation  of action rather than of character. It’s also fascinating nevermind that  Aristotle wasn’t talking about how movies work. Even so there’s something liberating about Mr. Mamet’s refusal to explain Mike who registers as a given much as an object does. Everything about the character exists right on the surface in his graceful physicality his sense of honor and his deeds. Mr. Ejiofor a sympathetic presence with worried eyes delivers his lines effectively and makes a plausible (at least to this admiring amateur) jujitsu master. He’s a pleasure to watch even when there’s not much to see in the character or on the screen." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/26/movies/26tash.html
no polka dots) bikini comes in a song-and-dance routine — “I flirt I trick I cheat ” she sings — but is quickly replaced by other revealing getups. The halter top and short-shorts combos make you wonder why all the fuss about that bikini?" “Tashan ” which roughly translates to “Style ” is all about things like bikinis red mini-dresses and tiger-print vests. (The wonderful costumes are by Aki Narula.) Vijay Krishna Acharya an accomplished screenwriter making his directing debut seems eager to show that he can deliver a movie in the high style — bright pop and technically sophisticated — to which Bollywood has become accustomed." Saif Ali Khan (Jimmy) Kareena Kapoor (Pooja) and Anil Kapoor (Bhaiyyaji)." the Great Bollywood Bikini Question of ’08 — will she or won’t she wear one?  — was finally answered. Readers she did." Hindi cinema’s biggest star) are like a snapshot of modernizing India: one English-speaking foreign-influenced and affluent; the other desi or traditional. If the film addresses any serious issue it’s this: Can these two just get along?" with English subtitles) and directed by Vijay Krishna Acharya; director of photography Ayananka Bose; edited by Rameshwar S. Bhagat; music by Vishal and Shekhar; choreography by Vaibhavi Merchant; art director Sukant Panigrahy; produced by Aditya Chopra; released by Yash Raj Films. In Manhattan at the Imaginasian Theater 239 East 59th Street. Running time: 2 hours 35 minutes. This film is not rated." Jimmy Cliff (Mr. Khan) hired to teach English to a gangster (Anil Kapoor) who loves that Jimmy sounds “just like George Bush.” Stolen money and Hindi-movie complications put Jimmy on the road with Pooja (Ms. Kapoor) and an illiterate thug Bachchan (Akshay Kumar in the film’s best performance)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/25/movies/25yang.html
the movie refuses to editorialize. It lets the images demonstrate the degree to which the old China has already disappeared. What emerges is a country in the throes of rampant economic development and the global homogenization it augurs." we are told come expecting to see the “old China” before it disappears. As the boat sails upriver the landscape is spectacular. At the same time the yellowish haze over the water suggests China’s already serious air pollution problem. There are brief glimpses of cities whose gaudy wall-to-wall signs match those of the Las Vegas Strip or Times Square. In these cities what remains of the old China is hidden by the glitter." suggested by Sun Yat-sen and later supported by Mao Zedong but not begun until 1994 is expected to be finished sometime in 2011. Not since the Great Wall has China undertaken such a massive engineering project." Downstairs” view of life aboard the vessel which is crowded with well-to-do American and European tourists catered to by a Chinese staff that is minutely drilled on proper etiquette: Never compare Canada and the United States; never call anyone old pale or fat (plump is O.K.); never talk about politics." the Chinese people are expected to “sacrifice the little family for the big family.”" ” Jia Zhangke’s haunting docudrama was about a man and a woman who never meet while searching for their mates in Fengjie a town in the process of demolition. It was drenched in a mood of despair." China’s longest river. When completed the 600-foot-high dam will be the largest hydroelectric project in the world. As we watch the steadily rising water swallow more and more of the landscape the film conveys an ominous sense of a society changing too fast in its stampede into an unknown future." the 16-year-old daughter of illiterate peasants who can’t afford to send her to college is a reluctant dishwasher. Like the other employees she is given a Western name Cindy. Miserable sullen and homesick she has a difficult time adjusting. Meanwhile her parents who are forced to leave the riverbank where they have survived by growing vegetables and fishing are shown carrying out the backbreaking labor of moving to a new location." the Chinese-Canadian director and occasional narrator of “Up the Yangtze ” an astonishing documentary of culture clash and the erasure of history amid China’s economic miracle." Mandarin and Sichuan with English subtitles) and directed by Yung Chang; director of photography Wang Shi Qing; edited by Hannele Halm; music by Olivier Alary; produced by Mila Aung-Thwin Germaine Ying-Gee Wong and John Christou; released by Zeitgeist Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated." renamed Jerry is a cocky good-looking go-getter from a middle-class background. We are told he is an example of the “little emperor” phenomenon in which male products of the country’s one-child policy grow up spoiled and entitled. Shortly after Mr. Chen begins receiving generous tips his cheerful but hard-nosed boss confronts him with complaints from tourists that he is soliciting tips. As he engages an American teenager in small talk about girls and sports he seems eager to shed his national identity and make money: the more the better." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/25/movies/25bomb.html
once deemed a subversive act has inevitably been co-opted over the last decade or so its influences turning up in video games and marketing campaigns and the work itself mounted on gallery walls. But if the artists shown here making magic with spray paint are any indication graffiti will never go out of style. It will continue to move with the times; with luck the filmmakers there to document it will do it the justice that this one does." Tokyo Cape Town and other cities around the globe the film features interviews with artists (some veiling their identities) whose milieu gives impetus to their activities which include social rebellion political agitation expressions of boredom  and simply bringing art to the streets. Though Mr. Reiss’s approach is decidedly pro-graffiti he also gives screen time to the occasional naysayers:  law-enforcement types who consider tagging a public nuisance." Tracy Wares; edited by Alex Márquez and Jessica Hernández; produced by Ms. Wares Mr. Reiss Jeffrey Levy-Hinte and Kate Christensen; released by Flying Cow and Antidote Films. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. This film is not rated." and it probably won’t be the last. But what distinguishes Jon Reiss’s lively sure-handed film from the rest is that it widens the spectrum by taking a comprehensively international viewpoint." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/25/movies/25gare.html
after all. And if “Roman de Gare” never quite lives up to the sheer delightful audacity of its mock-pastoral comic middle it dispenses a few other pleasures en route to the talky deflating revelations of its climax." the author whose ghostwriter “Paul” might turn out to be. A picture of world-weary elegance who adds a hint of existential suffering to her most offhand moments Ms. Ardant brings grande-dame gravity to what is at heart a frothy and contrived diversion." failing that what could be wrong with watching a movie where you will never have to wait very long to gaze upon a gorgeous landscape a beautiful woman or a glass of excellent wine? At a time when many European filmmakers are rediscovering the virtues of austere realism Mr. Lelouch unapologetically trades in luxury and fantasy. This predilection has perhaps prevented him from enjoying much in the way of critical esteem but “Roman de Gare” at least offers testament to his skills." care-worn farmstead at the foot of the French Alps and what follows is  24 hours (around half an hour as the audience measures time) of sexual social and familial absurdity. Huguette (Audrey Dana) a chain-smoking emotionally brittle woman has come back to her native village from Paris with the man she introduces to her parents and to her semi-estranged adolescent daughter as Paul her fiancé. This “Paul” (Dominique Pinon) is a doctor and Huguette’s sturdy peasant kinfolk view him a little warily before he breaks the ice with magic tricks and easygoing banter. But the high comedy of this visit is offset and intensified by acute anxiety." with English subtitles) produced and directed by Claude Lelouch; director of photography Gérard de Battista; edited by Stéphane Mazalaigue and Jean Gargonne; music by Alex Jaffray with songs by Gilbert Bécaud; production designer François Chauvaud; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." Fanny Ardant (Judith Ralitzer) Cyrille Eldin (Paul) and Audrey Dana (Huguette)." but it allows for shots of vintage sports cars opulent estates and rolling vineyards. Similarly there is no real reason for so much action to take place on a handsome yacht anchored in Cannes. But then again why wouldn’t you shoot a movie on a handsome yacht anchored in Cannes?" and this fellow is a stranger who hung around and offered her a ride. He is either a schoolteacher on the run from a humdrum provincial existence a ghost writer employed by a famous novelist or a serial killer and child rapist recently escaped from prison. Mr. Lelouch a deft manipulator of expectations and emotions makes all three identities seem for a while equally plausible while Alex Jaffray’s slyly sadistic score leads us to anticipate the worst." at first such a bundle of rage insecurity and need that sympathy seems out of the question. And Mr. Pinon with his half-squashed face and twitchy demeanor seems far too creepy and skittish to carry the movie anywhere interesting. And yet between them they supply a twist of psychological delicacy that is ultimately more interesting than the mechanics of the plot. Which exist ultimately as a way of passing the time without too much tedium or strain." a murder mystery and a somewhat self-conscious literary puzzle. All of that is entertaining enough if a bit preposterous and overdone but the twists and convolutions of the film’s beginning and end enable a middle that is dizzying domestic comedy." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/25/movies/25foun.html
the movie based on a novel by Elinor Lipman has enough material for two such farces. In one a childless mother obsessed with her ticking biological clock becomes pregnant after clumsy breakup sex with her husband of less than a year. (Her obstetrician is played by of all people Salman Rushdie.) In the other a woman who has just lost her adoptive mother is suddenly besieged by a garrulous local talk-show personality who claims to be her biological mother." ” a serious comedy is more impressive for what it refuses to do than for its modest accomplishment. The directorial debut of Helen Hunt who plays April Epner an anxious 39-year-old kindergarten teacher in New York City it has all the ingredients of a slick commercial farce which it emphatically is not." including Ms. Hunt are pointedly deglamorized. April alarmingly gaunt with straining neck tendons appears to wear little or no makeup. As her biological mother Bernice Graves Bette Midler is a blowsy plump loudmouth and bottle redhead whose obsequious behavior makes much of what she says sound false. Indeed some of it is. In her first of several lies she claims that April was conceived in a delirious one-night stand with Steve McQueen and relinquished for adoption after three days." Bette Midler (Bernice Graves) Colin Firth (Frank Harte) Matthew Broderick (Ben) Ben Shankman (Freddy) Lynn Cohen (Trudy Epner) John Benjamin Hickey (Alan/Man) and Salman Rushdie (Dr. Masani)." you can feel Ms. Hunt both as director and actor discarding sitcom conventions to shoot for something deeper and truer. And she achieves it mostly through the shaded performances of Mr. Firth and Ms. Midler as well as her own." Ms. Hunt emphasizes  her characters’ various shades of Jewishness. April doesn’t seem especially religious but in the opening scene she goes through a Jewish wedding ceremony with her childish husband Ben (Matthew Broderick) who goes to live with his mother after their breakup. “Then She Found Me” also clearly indicates that the characters’ lifestyles are not unrealistically comfortable." Frank (Colin Firth) the recently divorced father of two children (one is  April’s pupil) looks as if  he is going to seed. Spluttering neurotic and hot-tempered he has all the romantic promise of an over-the-hill Lancelot astride a tottering nag. Frank also lives in a seedy suburban neighborhood far from any center of action. Mr. Broderick’s Ben is a bloated inarticulate man-child. His two awkward sex scenes with Ms. Hunt (one in the back seat of a car) are desperate joyless quickies that involve minimal undressing and leave April confused and Ben apologetic." April’s ailing mother (Lynn Cohen) argues that there is no difference between raising an adopted child and one of your own; her daughter should cease fretting and adopt a Chinese baby she declares. April’s vehement refusal to consider the possibility rings as a tacit insult to her mother’s parenting skills but the simmering conflict is never brought into the open." which is frequently his face reddens he bluntly speaks his mind and he often excuses himself to go for a walk and let off steam. Ms. Midler’s Bernice is a credible portrait of a narcissistic drama queen with a good heart  beneath her celebrity bluster." their wary courtship proceeds in fits and starts but they keep at it. Life isn’t easy for April as she muddles along but you feel she is headed in the right direction." Victor Levin and Ms. Hunt based on the novel by Elinor Lipman; director of photography Peter Donahue; edited by Pam Wise; music by David Mansfield; production designer Stephen Beatrice; produced by Pam Koffler Katie Roumel Christine Vachon Connie Tavel and Ms. Hunt; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/25/movies/25dece.html
“Deception” has the kind of glassy glossy sheen and risible story that mean to suggest “Basic Instinct” but instead invoke lesser laughers like “Jade” and “Sliver.” A miscast Ewan McGregor plays a mouse who falls in with a charismatic (or so the screenplay insists) stranger played by the miscast Hugh Jackman. One improbable thing leads to another and suddenly the mouse is roaring having been inducted into a sex club in which beautiful women in French lingerie crawl around on all fours as if auditioning for a remake of “9  ½ Weeks.” At one point a bony Michelle Williams shows up in a fabulous haircut and towering heels that would fell a lesser woman. Complications ensue." Ewan McGregor (Jonathan McQuarry) Michelle Williams (S) Lisa Gay Hamilton (Detective Russo) Maggie Q (Tina) Natasha Henstridge (Wall Street Analyst) Lynn Cohen (Woman) Danny Burstein (Clute Controller) Malcolm Goodwin (Cabbie) Dante Spinotti (Herr Kleiner/Mr. Moretti) Bill Camp (Clancey Controller) Lisa Kron (Receptionist) Margaret Colin (Ms. Pomerantz)  and Charlotte Rampling (Wall Street Belle)." Dante Spinotti; edited by Christian Wagner and Douglas Crise; music by Ramin Djawadi; production designer Patrizia von Brandenstein; produced by Arnold Rifkin John Palermo Hugh Jackman Robbie Brenner David Bushell and Christopher Eberts; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." sometimes seminude." whose background in advertising is belied by this movie’s sluggish pace “Deception” was written by Mark Bomback who did far better coming up with polysyllabic grunts and groans for Bruce Willis in “Live Free or Die Hard.” As written and directed the characters in “Deception” are little more than avatars generic types (good guy bad man fatal blonde) that Mr. Langenegger moves from one busy setup to the next. The venerable cinematographer Dante Spinotti whose credits include “The Insider ” here works with a dark almost monochromatic palette and bathes the exteriors in an attractive gun-metal blue but neither his work nor that of the expert production designer Patrizia von Brandenstein (“The Ice Harvest ” “A Simple Plan”) is enough to save the movie from itself." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/25/movies/25stan.html
talking-head interviews appear to allow documentary subjects to speak for themselves to raise their own voices as it were. But when the filmmaker remains unseen and unheard these interviews also tend to obscure that someone is always shaping the conversation moving it in certain directions. Mr. Morris shouts out a few questions during the interviews but otherwise remains off camera his presence evident only in his stylistic signatures his tight framing and his aggressive editing. (Distractingly he tends to cut into even the shorter interviews and because he often slightly changes the angle of the shots with each edit the talking heads appear to shift from one side of the screen to the other.)" Robert Chappell and Robert Richardson; edited by Andy Grieve Steven Hathaway and Dan Mooney; music by Danny Elfman; production designer Steve Hardie; produced by Mr. Morris and Julie Bilson Ahlberg; released by Sony Pictures Classics and Participant Productions. Running time: 1 hour 57 minutes." Errol Morris’s “Standard Operating Procedure” is an inquiry into the prisoner abuse scandal at Abu Ghraib. It is predictably a bleak depressing movie but if you stick around through the end credits you may also be in for a few surprises. In addition to the usual complement of helpers — a research coordinator a consultant on  Iraq — the credits mention a costume designer a wardrobe stylist six hair and makeup people an action consultant an armorer 5 set dressers 7  animal handlers 10 prop makers 33 cast members and Danny Elfman the longtime composer for Tim Burton." but the problem is that none of it — not the interviews not the lurid re-enactments — really goes anywhere. There is some mild fascination (or satisfaction) perhaps in seeing how badly Lynndie England — the grinning pixie who was photographed with a leashed naked prisoner — has aged. Yet like all the other low-ranking soldiers caught up in this nightmare Ms. England says next to nothing of interest not only because she appears to have been a cog in a much larger military machine but also because Mr. Morris’s approach here is profoundly nondialectic. He lets her talk and talk but doesn’t challenge or engage her beyond a question about her age. The night of one photo shoot she turned 21." Mr. Morris employs two familiar documentary strategies: direct-address interviews and re-enactments in which actors restage actual historical events. Although re-enactments tend to raise alarms particularly by viewers who confuse documentaries with journalism interviews are often more problematic precisely because they look so straightforward even transparent. Mr. Morris who paid some of the interviewees who appear in “Standard Operating Procedure” — an unusual if not unprecedented documentary occurrence — frames his subjects in head-and-shoulder close-ups which more or less mimics the closeness of one-to-one person-to-person conversation. This sense of intimacy is further enhanced by a device that Mr. Morris developed called the Interrotron which allows interviewees to look at his video image while they are being filmed instead of at the camera much as newscasters look at teleprompters." and it points to a central issue that Mr. Morris takes up though doesn’t explore in real depth namely that a group of young soldiers committed crimes at the behest of their superiors. Mr. Hersh among others has voiced his opinions on who deserves blame but beyond a throwaway image of President Bush Mr. Morris himself remains basically silent on this crucial point. Instead he lets the soldiers state their case tosses in some nifty special effects (the photos zip about nicely) and with extraordinary meticulousness and to no real analytic purpose restages some of the worst images a rhetorical gesture that registers as an unfortunate attempt to trump the originals." the inexhaustible Seymour M. Hersh  doesn’t appear convinced. And there are other journalists who continue to cover the story and readers who seek out more information about it including through documentaries like “Standard Operating Procedure.” Mr. Morris certainly wasn’t convinced that he had seen everything; he made this movie which at its finest and most focused seeks to examine how seeing does — and does not — become knowing." all the more so when you compare it with the average documentary or even a modest fiction film. The very scale of “Standard Operating Procedure” — evident in its costly-looking production values special effects and elaborately choreographed re-enactments — suggests that Mr. Morris has grown weary of working in the margins to which documentary filmmakers are still too often relegated. “Standard Operating Procedure” is a big provocative and — it goes without saying — disturbing work though what makes it most provocative is that its greatest ambitions are for its own visual style." including in his 1988 breakthrough “The Thin Blue Line.” But nothing he has done previously approaches the level of fetishistic detail he achieves here whether he’s showing us beautifully backlighted dust motes dancing in the prison air or an exquisitely photographed pearl of blood dangling from a brutalized prisoner’s or rather actor’s nose. The close-ups of the snarling barking guard dogs summon memories of Stephen King’s “Cujo ” which makes sense given that Mr. Morris’s epistemological quest has led him to reimagine Abu Ghraib in the vernacular of a cheap Hollywood horror flick. If nothing else the dogs and their trainers serve as a reminder that Mr. Morris is in his own singular fashion very much in the entertainment business." the abnegation of government responsibility and what happens when certain young male and female soldiers are left to their own ill-informed devices. In a director’s statement Mr. Morris explains that one force driving the project was the mass of photographs taken by American soldiers at Abu Ghraib that document often in horrifyingly explicit detail the prisoner abuse that they helped perpetuate. He and his team “set out to examine the context of these photographs” in an attempt to uncover what had happened outside the frame. For him the photographs function as both an exposé and a cover-up because while they revealed the horror they also “convinced journalists and readers they had seen everything.”" including that of Janis Karpinski the Army Reserve brigadier general in charge of military prisons in Iraq before the scandal broke will look familiar not least because they appear in Rory Kennedy’s informative 2007 documentary “Ghosts of Abu Ghraib.” A fascinating screen presence whose spooky light eyes never seem to blink Ms. Karpinski who was demoted to colonel is the highest-ranking officer to have been punished for her participation. And because she is also the highest-ranking officer in “Standard Operating Procedure ” she sounds particularly impressive dropping two-star names and insider dope with authority. She makes a good witness though it becomes clear that much like everyone else who appears here she is mostly testifying on her own behalf." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/25/movies/25kuma.html
dumb dirty joke — or maybe if sometimes you just wish you could believe as much — then “Harold & Kumar Escape From Guantanamo Bay ” written and directed by Jon Hurwitz and Hayden Schlossberg just might be the perfect movie for you. That it is quite unapologetically far from perfect in every respect almost doesn’t matter. The simple fact that a movie exists with the title “Harold & Kumar Escape From Guantanamo Bay” is cause for hope. Or maybe for alarm. In any case for a few laughs." more significant ways the “Harold & Kumar” movies of which this is the second (after the immortal “Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle”) and I hope not the last go further than most stoner raunch comedies in acknowledging certain realities of contemporary American life." involving the standard motifs of R-rated male comedy: excrement leering sexual aggression hysterical sexual insecurity and drug use. Not much new ground is broken in this department which doesn’t mean that the jokes themselves aren’t funny." rather than incisive satire directed at Bush-era America. That is the job of Mr. Corddry’s erstwhile “Daily Show” colleagues Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert. Mr. Hurwitz and Mr. Schlossberg (who wrote but did not direct “White Castle”) instead rely on a general sense of good-humored exasperation that never reaches the boiling point of political indignation." Daryn Okada; edited by Jeff Freeman; music by George S. Clinton; production designer Tony Fanning; produced by Greg Shapiro and Nathan Kahane; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes." Harold and Kumar manage to be fairly persuasive when they get around to criticizing the status quo which the movie has the wit to acknowledge itself as part of." and we’re not going to take this anymore.” These lines are  spoken by an exasperated government official and they could I suppose be directed at the makers and stars of “Harold & Kumar Escape From Guantanamo Bay.” But they’re not stupid and to the extent that the movie is its idiocy serves the cause of good sense and intelligence. And no I’m not smoking anything." four years ago was simple and aspirational: they had the munchies and they wanted some burgers. But now times have changed even though it is only a few days later in screen time. Paranoia is no longer an occasional bong-induced side effect but rather standard operating procedure at the highest levels of government." and to a zealous Homeland Security bureaucrat (Rob Corddry) its discovery exposes a terrorist conspiracy between Al Qaeda and North Korea. And so into United States custody and then post-escape on another stoner road trip to Texas where Kumar’s college sweetheart Vanessa (Danneel Harris) is about to marry a well-connected prepster named Colton (Eric Winter). On the way they meet people who challenge some stereotypes and confirm others and they also in a sublime pop-cultural in-joke carried over from the trip to White Castle hook up with the great Neil Patrick Harris." John Cho (Harold) Rob Corddry (Ron Fox) Roger Bart (Dr. Beecher) David Krumholtz (Goldstein) Eddie Kaye Thomas (Rosenberg) Jack Conley (Deputy Frye) Paula Garces (Maria) Danneel Harris (Vanessa) Eric Winter (Colton) and Neil Patrick Harris (Neil Patrick Harris)." drug use and gratuitous nudity." sort of. When Kumar is asked to step aside for a random security check at the airport he blusters about ethnic profiling which it turns out is less a matter of righteous outrage than an attempt to distract the security agents from finding the marijuana in his underwear. He and Harold are going to Amsterdam to find Maria (Paula Garces) the new love in Harold’s life but rather than wait until they land in that paradise of legal vice Kumar tries to fire up the pipe in the lavatory at 30 000 feet." and the movie loses some credibility when it declines to show the full extent of its stars’ eventual participation in the festivities. Dudes if the dude in “Forgetting Sarah Marshall” could put his business up on the screen then so can you. It’s a whole new world." but also in a way the most radical lies in Harold and Kumar themselves. Played by John Cho (he’s Harold Lee the Korean-American investment banker) and Kal Penn (he’s Kumar Patel the Indian-American would-be medical student) they are a postcollegiate multicultural odd couple in a world where ignorance and prejudice do battle with hypersensitivity and political correctness. They are at once nerdy achievers caught in the gears of meritocracy and stoner rebels against the machine. In their exasperated half-baked (or in the reefer-mad Kumar’s case fully baked) way these representative men mock all sides." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/25/movies/25king.html
King Mswati III and his extravagant lifestyle — multiple residences limousines a private jet — alternate with images of life in the townships where clusters of rickety shacks surround filthy watering holes and dinner might be intestines pilfered from the local dump. With near-absolute power (there is a constitution but opposition parties are banned) the king maintains an offshore bank account worth billions of dollars and chooses a 13th wife at the annual dance of topless virgins. In Swaziland it’s very good to be the king." with English subtitles; director of photography James Adolphus; edited by Martha Skolnik; music by Mark Kilian; produced by Paola Mendoza and Mr. Skolnik; released by First Run Features. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated." there are mutterings against the royal family and hints of civil war. Yet the film fluidly shot by James Adolphus remains deeply sensitive to the complexities of a culture whose attachment to monarchy contravenes its best interests. This dilemma is gradually becoming clear to Princess Sikhanyiso the oldest of the king’s 22 children and a student in California. Intelligent articulate caring and strong-willed she could be her country’s best hope." one of Africa’s smallest countries and its sole remaining absolute monarchy the prevalence of AIDS and starvation ensures an average life expectancy of 31 years. But “Without the King ” Michael Skolnik’s subtly perceptive documentary avoids a tone of first-world outrage; leaning more toward understanding than blame the film examines a country forced to choose between tradition and survival." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/25/movies/25baby.html
” which was written and directed by the newcomer Michael McCullers yet another “Saturday Night Live” alumnus opens with Ms. Fey’s character Kate Holbrook eyeballing babies like a hungry wolf. Everyone has a pitter-pattering Tater Tot but Kate who lives alone in her generically appointed Philadelphia apartment (the film was also shot in New York)  and has few contacts outside her job extended family and wisecracking doorman Oscar (Romany Malco). Basically she’s Rhoda with thinner thighs which I guess means that she’s Mary Richards. But this being 2008 and not the women’s-liberated 1970s it isn’t enough for Kate to be a swinging single: she wants a baby and she wants it now. Enter Angie Ostrowiski (Ms. Poehler)." because she is genuinely funny. And if there’s anything the movies could use it is funny women especially those who earn laughs by keeping their clothes on and their dignity (more or less) intact. Under the old Hollywood system the studio boss might have ordered up a dance coach for Ms. Fey maybe a few lessons on how to walk across a set or move her upper body once in a while. She might not have been able to rip loose as a writer-performer which makes the idea of her developing a simultaneous on-and-off-screen presence all the more tantalizing. Real funny women — Mae West Elaine May — come along every few decades so the timing seems right. But the clock is ticking." on “Saturday Night Live” and “30 Rock.” Until now her biggest movie role was the uncomfortable but earnest high school math teacher Ms. Norbury in the comedy “Mean Girls ” which she also wrote.  (“You all have got to stop calling each other sluts and whores ” Ms. Norbury warns the mean girls and their female prey. “It just makes it O.K. for guys to call you sluts and whores.”) Like a lot of comedies “Mean Girls”  has its devilish cake and eats it too wagging an unpersuasive finger at the very cruelty it skillfully deploys. Ms. Fey may not want girls to call one another sluts but she’s all too happy to call them that herself." and while some performers appear to direct the cruelty inward — think of Jerry Lewis and Ben Stiller wringing squirmy uneasy laughs out of the humiliations rained down on their characters — that doesn’t seem to be Ms. Fey’s style. Certainly it isn’t what she’s called on to do in “Baby Mama ” in which she plays a snappy sardonic individualist who much like Ms. Fey herself works in a male-dominated industry (here as an executive in an organic grocery chain similar to Whole Foods) and favors the kind of sexy librarian look (high-heeled shoes low-cut blouses and dark-frame glasses) that signals there’s a hot body to go along with that feverishly smart brain." Amy Poehler (Angie) Greg Kinnear (Rob) Dax Shepard (Carl) Romany Malco (Oscar) Steve Martin (Barry) Maura Tierney (Caroline) Holland Taylor (Rose) and Sigourney Weaver (Chaffee Bicknell)." Daryn Okada; edited by Bruce Green; music by Jeff Richmond; production designer Jess Gonchor; produced by Lorne Michaels and John Goldwyn; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." desperate for a baby hires a womb of her own in the dizzy slap-happy form of Amy Poehler. The film never comes fully to term as it were: the visual style is sitcom functional and even the zippiest jokes fall flat because of poor timing. But much like the prickly talented Ms. Fey it pulls you in with a provocative and at least in current American movies unusual mix of female intelligence awkwardness and chilled-to-the-bone mean." though not much mostly some amusing nonsense from Steve Martin as Kate’s boss a belligerently New Agey entrepreneur with an unkind ponytail.  Greg Kinnear also shows up now and again as Kate’s inevitable love interest perhaps so things don’t overheat when Angie moves in. Not that anyone need worry about this female odd couple given that Ms. Fey who doesn’t have the acting chops that might invest her character with some personality has been forced to play it straight and narrow. The close-up medium of television is more forgiving of those comics who tend to stand in the middle of the frame as if they had just been planted. But unlike Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David Ms. Fey doesn’t even have a funny voice." as the softly focused close-ups suggest but she’s a pip. She’s the ball that bounces against Ms. Fey’s formidable wall a nonstop joyfully watchable whirligig. Drawn in broad often crude strokes Angie is dumber than the usual dumb blonde so beloved of the movies largely because she’s also coded as white trash a kind of urban Daisy Mae complete with short shorts wads of chewing gum and a tag-along buffoon Carl (Dax Shepard). If Angie works at all it’s because Ms. Poehler puts a sweet spin on her character’s gaffes whether she’s yelping in horror at the unfamiliar taste of water or squatting in a sink when nature makes an untimely call." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/23/movies/23stuf.html
disturbing drama in an anecdote from ordinary life. As is often the case in recent Romanian movies the acting is so accomplished as to be invisible. There is no showy emotion no elaborate expressions of interior states. We just see people responding to circumstances that grow increasingly tense and confusing. Only afterward do we marvel at the complication of the story and the clarity with which it has been told." the unsympathetic old drunk whose passing became a fable of routine inhumanity and unexpected compassion Ovidiu is in spite of himself something of a representative figure a nice kid forced to navigate between corruption and victimhood. The title of “Stuff and Dough” offers a blunt summary of human aspirations in an economy where free enterprise can be hard to distinguish from crime. At the start Ovidiu feels lucky free and in control of his future. He’ll help his parents impress a powerful local citizen and spend a day out on the highway with his friends. Really though he has wandered into a trap that closes around him gradually and quietly." unnerving and agile in its techniques “Stuff and Dough” has more than speed and danger on its mind. Mr. Puiu’s second feature “The Death of Mr. Lazarescu ” winner of the Prix un Certain Regard at Cannes in 2005 introduced many European and American critics to a new kind of tough socially critical realist cinema blossoming in Romania. “Stuff and Dough ” a 2002 film belatedly crossing the ocean in the wake of “Lazarescu ” is more modest in scope but no less impressive in its self-confidence its candor and its stringent undogmatic contemporary relevance." with English subtitles) by Mr. Puiu and Razvan Radulescu; director of photography Silviu Stavila; music by Andreea Paduraru; produced by Cornel Carjan; released by Mitropoulos Films. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 31 minutes. This film is not rated." at least at first glance as plain and straightforward as the movie’s title. A young man named Ovidiu (Alexandru Papadopol) is hired by a smooth shady businessman to drive a mysterious package — that would be the stuff — from the Romanian coastal city of Constanta to the capital Bucharest. The dough he’ll earn for performing this simple task will help his parents who run an informal convenience store out of their apartment move their business into a proper kiosk. Ovidiu has his best buddy Vali (Dragos Bucur) for company. What could go wrong?" instead a relentless observer of the smallest most banal details of human behavior. By keeping his camera in the car with Bety Vali and Ovidiu he draws nuances of character out of their boredom and impatience. He also sticks to Ovidiu’s perspective never giving the audience more information about what is going on than the young man himself possesses. The result is that we share in his innocence even as we become aware of his carelessness and also of the perils inherent in his mixture of sloppiness and naïveté." of course: a late start; the unexpected presence of Vali’s girlfriend Bety (Ioana Flora); and once they’re on the highway a red vehicle in threatening pursuit. The director Cristi Puiu who wrote the screenplay with Razvan Radulescu almost casually assembles the elements of a stripped-down highway thriller a throwback to American gear-grinders of the 1960s and ’70s like “Two-Lane Blacktop” or “The Duel.”" Dragos Bucur (Vali) Ioana Flora (Bety) Luminita Gheorghiu (the Mother) Razvan Vasilescu (Marcel Ivanov) and Doru Ana (Doncea)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18swor.html
the former pastor of the New Life Church in Colorado Springs who was filmed for this movie before his fall from grace in a scandal involving a former male prostitute. Fiery-eyed and grinning maniacally Mr. Haggard suggests a Paul Lynde caricature of a fire-and-brimstone preacher. The evangelical fervor in Colorado Springs is the somewhat tenuous topical hook on which the movie’s exploration of religion and power is hung." shadow history of the Catholic Church. He dates the notion of Christian militancy to the early fourth century when the future emperor Constantine I on the eve of a battle for control of the Roman Empire had a vision of the cross in the sky inscribed with words promising that under its sign he would conquer. After the battle in which he led a victorious army wielding a sword in the shape of a cross he legalized Christianity and the cross previously a minor symbol became synonymous with Christian might." based on the book by Mr. Carroll; director of photography Bob Richman; edited by Kate Hirson; music by Joel Goodman; produced by Mr. Jacoby Mr. Carroll Michael Solomon and Betsy West; released by First Run Features and Red Envelope Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." Germany where Crusaders sailing down the Rhine systematically destroyed Jewish communities which the pope refused to protect unless the people converted. Centuries later Trier was the site of an agreement between the Catholic Church and Hitler negotiated with the future Pope Pius XII whose later refusal to speak out during the Holocaust Mr. Carroll considers to be a great shame of the church." Mr. Carroll wonders when George W. Bush throws around concepts like good and evil and uses the word crusade to describe the Iraq war? Mr. Carroll worries that we may be heading toward an all-out holy war between state-supported religious extremists." “Constantine’s Sword” is a cri de coeur about the abuse of religion when aligned with the state. Jesus “the prince of peace ” Mr. Carroll insists was not an intolerant warmonger." an alumnus of the United States Air Force Academy describes the harassment of his son Casey a Jewish cadet by evangelical Christians who over several days blanketed the student cafeteria with fliers promoting the Mel Gibson film “The Passion of the Christ.” There is no doubt in his mind that the film promoted an inflammatory view of Jews as Christ killers. He sued the Air Force but the case never made it to trial." a former Roman Catholic priest and an acclaimed author whose memoir “An American Requiem: God My Father and the War That Came Between Us” won a 1996 National Book Award vehemently disagrees with the church on many issues but still embraces Catholicism. A former anti-Vietnam War activist now in his mid-60s he is an eloquent screen presence who conveys the same searching moral gravity that characterized other Catholic war resisters during the Vietnam era." how far should your loyalty to the church extend? The same could be asked of loyalty to a government or a political party." ” he warns “it’s a lake of gasoline and all it’s going to take is someone to drop a match into it for a terrible conflagration.”" Stein died in Auschwitz in 1942. The letter which went unanswered was made public in 2003 five years after she was canonized." he is the son of a former F.B.I. agent who became a three-star general and an enthusiastic prosecutor of the Vietnam War. When Mr. Carroll was a boy his family had a private audience with the pope and he recalls his feelings of awe. Years later he became an ardent opponent of the Vietnam War. His estrangement from his father began when shortly after becoming a priest he referred to napalm in a sermon." the film whose title has been simplified from the book’s “Constantine’s Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History ” does about as good a job as you could hope of distilling a 750-page historical examination of religious zealotry and power into 95 swift minutes. Because the book was published several months before 9/11 the film adaptation which was written by Mr. Jacoby and Mr. Carroll and uses the voices of Liev Schreiber Philip Bosco Natasha Richardson and Eli Wallach updates the book’s pessimistic vision of how religions demonize one another to include Christian and Islamic fundamentalism as well as anti-Semitism." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18yaku.html
after which he was to decide whether to join: a simple narrative culminating in a crucial choice. But that plan is thrown for a loop midway through and Mr. Limosin turns his attention to the gaunt raspy-voiced man referred to only as “the Boss.” Even if he is playing for the cameras a bit this fellow convinces you that crime families are as worried about staying relevant as say churches or 4-H Clubs. “We have to reflect on how we can provide hopes and dreams for the youth of today ” he says incongruously. “It is a real problem for us.”" with the seemingly stifling provision that he not film illegal activities. This means there are no shocking revelations but the film wasn’t intended as an exposé. It’s more like one of those mournful looks at an endangered species." if he is tracking subjects over an extended period he shouldn’t assume he knows where the story will go. Jean-Pierre Limosin’s “Young Yakuza ” about Japan’s version of the Mafia starts out in one direction but when things don’t go quite as Mr. Limosin might have envisioned he has the good sense to shift his focus in midfilm." with English subtitles; directors of photography Julien Hirsch and Céline Bozon; edited by Tina Baz; music by RGM/Xavier Jamaux; produced by Hengameh Panahi and Chistian Baute; released by Cinema Epoch. At the Imaginasian Theater 239 East 59th Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18four.html
incest hanging and catfights — on paper at least “Four Minutes” promises more fun than a Roger Corman marathon. But before you start eagerly visualizing the poster you should probably know that this award-winning melodrama from Chris Kraus could not possibly take itself more seriously." Jenny (a mesmerizing Hannah Herzsprung) the movie is a collage of intense encounters and violent confrontations. Memories of Traude’s Nazi-dominated past and a doomed Sapphic affair resurface as she interacts with her volcanic student who is harangued for playing “Negro music” when her main problem is permanentlybloodied hands from beating people up. Priorities Traude priorities." impassioned and emotionally exhausting “Four Minutes” circles the allure of psychological damage with surprising chastity reserving its sensuality for weeping walls and velvety shadows. (The director of photography Judith Kaufmann is amazingly evocative with low light and pasty skin.) Jenny may pound the piano with sweaty sublimated sexuality — hands cuffed behind her back no less — but her delicious abandon will be small consolation to those hoping for a reprise of Mr. Corman’s genre masterpiece “The Big Doll House.” But isn’t that what imagination is for?" with English subtitles) and directed by Chris Kraus; director of photography Judith Kaufmann; edited by Uta Schmidt; music by Annette Focks; produced by Meike Kordes and Alexandra Kordes; released by Autobahn. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. This film is not rated." Hannah Herzsprung (Jenny von Loeben) Sven Pippig (Mütze) Richy Müller (Kowalski) and Jasmin Tabatabai (Ayse)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18anam.html
as are the other characters. There’s a killer of course and eviscerated bodies arranged in tableaus that will either cause you to blanch or dredge up memories from Art History 101. Clea Duvall has a small predictably thankless part as Stan’s token female friend a former prostitute (naturally) who only meets him when she’s giving blood which she does in more ways than one. Scott Speedman plays another detective though his role is more rightly that of a red herring while an amusing Peter Stormare shows up as some kind of antiques guru with the investigative insight of Hercule Poirot. Me I haven’t a clue what Mr. Stormare is doing in this film but it was nice to see him." less because it’s a work of genius than because it directly engages with our obsession — our moviegoing spectacle-seeking bloodletting obsession — with serial killers. “Anamorph” is a far more modest endeavor in aesthetic and intellectual terms: It’s self-conscious about its influences without being self-reflexive. Mr. Miller and Mr. Phelan filter their ideas through a more rarefied sieve than most mainstream horror guys — in addition to Mr. Lynch they borrow from the painter Francis Bacon and throw around art-speak — but they show no interest in adding to the discussion (as it were). They’re more interested in the neat-o ways you can slice and dice a body than in trying to construct meaning from its severed parts." Scott Speedman (Carl Uffner) Clea Duvall (Sandy Strickland) James Rebhorn (Chief Lewellyn Brainard) Peter Stormare (Blair Collet) Deborah Harry (Neighbor) and Amy Carlson (Alexandra Fredericks)." even if some of his best moves are derivative. The same is true of the film’s director H. S. Miller who in making his feature debut conjures up a nightmarish atmosphere of dread that owes obvious debts both to David Lynch (particularly the later work) and to John McNaughton (namely his notorious  horror show “Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer”). Mr. Miller and his co-writer Tom Phelan manage to get under your skin largely with borrowed implements though they receive solid support from Willem Dafoe and the resourceful veteran cinematographer Fred Murphy." a zonked-out New York City detective played by an especially cadaverous-looking Willem Dafoe. With his wild eyes and sharp bones his parchment-thin skin stretched across his face like a drying animal hide Mr. Dafoe has always made for an unsettling screen presence. He doesn’t have much to work with in “Anamorph” beyond some laborious bits of business and character tics — Stan guzzles his booze out of little airliner  bottles and owns an antique armchair — but he makes even these trivial moments count. Mostly he plays Stan without a trace of pity laying bare a man who seems to have been so hollowed out by his gruesome work that he’s as lifeless as a corpse." and by far the more accomplished. That’s some consolation I suppose though it’s also a drag that filmmakers persist in trolling the same brackish waters. In 1990   Mr. McNaughton shook up audiences with the unnerving “Henry ” a creepy chilly flick with a lot of skill and no heart (though I do believe you can see one peeping through a victim’s rib cage). Jonathan Demme added Hollywood gloss to the subgenre with “The Silence of the Lambs” (1991) and David Fincher broke from the pack with “Seven” (1995). Last year brought  the release of Mr. Fincher’s masterly “Zodiac ” the definitive serial-killer film.""his is the second serial-killer movie opening in New York City today (see the review of "88 Minutes") and by far the more accomplished. That’s some consolation I suppose though it’s also a drag that filmmakers persist in trolling the same brackish waters. In 1990   Mr. McNaughton shook up audiences with the unnerving “Henry ” a creepy chilly flick with a lot of skill and no heart (though I do believe you can see one peeping through a victim’s rib cage). Jonathan Demme added Hollywood gloss to the subgenre with “The Silence of the Lambs” (1991) and David Fincher broke from the pack with “Seven” (1995). Last year br""is is the second serial-killer movie opening in New York City today (see the review of "88 Minutes") and by far the more accomplished. That’s some consolation I suppose though it’s also a drag that filmmakers persist in trolling the same brackish waters. In 1990   Mr. McNaughton shook up audiences with the unnerving “Henry ” a creepy chilly flick with a lot of skill and no heart (though I do believe you can see one peeping through a victim’s rib cage). Jonathan Demme added Hollywood gloss to the subgenre with “The Silence of th""s is the second serial-killer movie opening in New York City today (see the review of "88 Minutes") and by far the more accomplished. That’s some consolation I suppose though it’s also a drag that filmmakers persist in trolling the same brackish waters. In 1990   Mr. McNaughton shook up audiences with the unnerving “Henry ” a creepy chilly flick with a lot of skill and no heart (though I do believe you can see one peeping through a victim’s "" is the second serial-killer movie opening in New York City today (see the review of "88 Minutes") and by far the more accomplished. That’s some consolation I suppose though it’s also a drag that filmmakers persist in trolling the same brackish waters. In 1990   Mr. McNaughton shook up audiences with the unnerving “Henry ” a creepy chilly flick with a lot ""is the second serial-killer movie opening in New York City today (see the review of "88 Minutes") and by far the more accomplished. That’s some consolation I suppose though it’s also a drag that filmmakers persist in trolling the same brackish waters. In 1990   Mr. McNaugh""s the second serial-killer movie opening in New York City today (see the review of "88 Minutes") and by far the more accomplished. That’s some consolation I suppose though it’s also a drag"" the second serial-killer movie opening in New York City today (see the review of "88 Minutes") and by far""the second serial-killer" Fred Murphy; edited by Geraud Brisson; music by Reinhold Heil and Johnny Klimek; production designer Jackson De Govia; produced by Marissa McMahon; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18zomb.html
this unevenly paced film delivers if nothing else on the promise of its title: lots of surgically enhanced nude dead women strutting their stuff." which he wrote directed shot and edited. (Need it actually be said that everyone else can safely sit this one out?)" Mr. Lee; produced by Angela Lee Larry Schapiro and Andrew Golov; released by Triumph Films. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." many of whom serve as postshow snacks. The undead’s popularity sparks jealousy among the still-living performers and intensified greed in the club’s sleazy boss (Robert Englund) who realizes there’s a killing to be made (in more ways than one of course)." Jenna Jameson (Kat) Jeannette Sousa (Berenge) Shamron Moore (Jeannie) Brad Milne (Dr. Chushfeld) Shannon Malone (Dr. Genet) Catero Colbert (Major Camus) Zak Kilberg (Byrdflough) and Jennifer Holland (Jessy)." nudity flesh-eating head-exploding and other gore." the film at least tries. In addition to drawing inspiration from Eugène Ionesco’s ever-relevant absurdist play “Rhinoceros ” it’s full of jabs at the Bush administration and philosophy references — for starters Jenna Jameson as the first stripper to succumb to zombification reads and quotes Nietzsche." clearly the main attraction here." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18osam.html
’ ” Mr. Spurlock says. “That would be ridiculous.” Indeed it would. As a more practical alternative he suggests that we need to realize that the good folks of the world outnumber the bad ones and to celebrate the things we all have in common like our children and our families and our desire for a better world. So true! But also and more to the point: So what?" the director of this film has also written a tie-in volume that recounts in somewhat greater detail than the movie his half-joking search for the world’s most notorious terrorist." more so here than in “Super Size Me ” advances an essentially anti-political view of the world. It’s impossible to disagree with much of what he says in “Where in the World Is Osama bin Laden ” but it’s also impossible to learn anything about war terrorism religion oil democracy or any of the other topics a less glib less self-absorbed filmmaker might want to tackle." but in general he’s less interested in analysis than in genial chats and easy jokes. His method — keeping himself on camera button-holing strangers in the street overdoing the folksiness — makes comparison with Michael Moore inevitable but the difference is that Mr. Moore’s aw-shucks persona and ambush tactics advance a definite political point of view." apparently who serves as his own straw man repeatedly debunking his own disingenuous prejudice or naïveté. Wherever he goes he finds people who respond to his amiable good-humored questions with smiles and platitudes. There are to be sure a few exceptions. He hears a virulently anti-American anti-Israel  sermon in a Saudi mosque and the repressiveness of that country freaks him out a little. And he receives a hostile welcome in an ultra-Orthodox neighborhood in Israel where the residents greet his inquiries with shouts and shoves." mind you but because he wants to fulfill the basic fatherly duty of keeping his impending child safe by capturing a major threat to his well-being. The facetiousness of this project is charming at first — as is the conceit of depicting the hunt for Mr. bin Laden using video-game animation — but the charm wears off pretty quickly. Mr. Spurlock travels from Egypt to Morocco and then to Israel Saudi Arabia and Afghanistan asking if anyone knows where Mr. bin Laden might be and following up with slightly less inane questions." whose experiment with an all-McDonald’s diet was the subject of his first film “Super Size Me ”  is a friendly energetic fellow who makes strenuous use of those qualities. At the beginning of “Where in the World” he discovers that he is about to become a father news that inspires him to leave his pregnant girlfriend in New York and set off on a hopscotching sometimes hair-raising journey across North Africa and the Middle East." war and other forms of violence." 2001 without opening a book or a newspaper or for that matter seeing any of the dozens of more sober-minded better-informed documentaries that deal with terrorism American foreign policy Islam and related matters. Even though we Americans are according to Mr. Spurlock conditioned by “the media” to regard all Muslims as violent extremists he discovers that a lot of them are actually quite nice. Also you may be interested to learn the Israelis and Palestinians don’t get along so well and there are a lot of problems in Afghanistan." Daniel Marracino; edited by Gavin Coleman and Julie (Bob) Lombardi; music by Jon Spurney; produced by Mr. Chilnick Stacey Offman and Mr. Spurlock; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18minu.html
torture naked women — the usual." Denis Lenoir; edited by Peter Berger; music by Edward Shearmur; production designer Tracey Gallacher; produced by Mr. Avnet Mr. Thompson and Randall Emmett; released by TriStar Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." who delivers one of her singular and eminently watchable narcoleptic turns (and seems to have actually done a little of her own stunt work) the performances are risible. The usually appealing Ms. Witt and Ms. Sobieski fare less well than Ms. Unger does largely because one is forced to vamp Dr. Jack while the other assumes a naughtier role and in leather pants no less. Mr. Pacino who spends much of his screen time talking and occasionally shouting into a cellphone barely seems to register that he’s sharing the screen with any other actors perhaps because in a very fundamental way he isn’t. There’s nothing to be said about Jon Avnet’s direction except that he sure does like aerial shots." notably one of those unfortunate Al Pacino star turns that make you wonder if a career intervention is even possible at this stage. Certainly his startling appearance — a dusky orange tan that suggests a charbroiled George Hamilton and an elevated pouf of hair that appears to have been engineered to put Mr. Pacino within vertical range of his female co-stars — suggests a level of vanity that might make an intervention difficult. Vanity is a star’s prerogative but it can be the portal to inescapable self-parody as the late-period Joan Crawford attests." there’s nothing at all left to be said about this idiotic flick. But here’s a thought: Misogyny aside the attention shown to the display of dead bodies in “88 Minutes” offers continued evidence that cinema’s fascination with human locomotion during the art’s first 50 years — evident in early motion studies in the gymnastics of the silent-movie clowns and in musicals — seems to have been supplanted in the last 50 by a fascination with rigor mortis. The touchstone for this shift is probably Hitchcock’s masterpiece “Psycho ” in which the camera is more vibrantly alive than any of the characters including that dead blonde in the shower. She makes such a beautiful corpse it’s no wonder that we keep asking for more." Alicia Witt (Kim Cummings) Leelee Sobieski (Lauren Douglas) Amy Brenneman (Shelly Barnes) Deborah Kara Unger (Carol Lynn Johnson) Benjamin McKenzie (Mike Stempt) William Forsythe (Frank Parks) and Neal McDonough (Jon Forster)." and so it is with this one which seems to slow down the longer it goes largely because it runs an interminable 105 minutes and not a tantalizing 88. During what’s meant to be a short time the plot complications amass as do incoherent camera setups and yet more elaborately trussed-up female bodies. A few outré touches help pass the tick-tock tick-tock including the dissonant casting of the spectral Deborah Kara Unger as a college dean and the production design for Dr. Jack’s digs a Sharper Image bachelor pad with a wine collection and a Walther pistol a brand favored by James Bond." “88 Minutes” is mostly just a slog. The subject doesn’t help: it opens with an intricately choreographed murder that finds a young Seattle woman trussed up like a hog for slaughter. Cut to the present. The murderer has been caught and the man who helped put the villain on death row is Dr. Jack Gramm (Mr. Pacino) a forensic psychiatrist and professor with young Amazon students (Alicia Witt and Leelee Sobieski) and a sympathetic foil with a badge (William Forsythe). Dr. Jack fields lots of calls from his assistant (Amy Brenneman) but one day he receives a ring-a-ding from someone who says that he has 88 minutes to live ... then 82 minutes ... and so on." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18life.html
scenes of violence and some strong language." Irvine Los Angeles and Pasadena Calif.; and Manhattan. Directed by Vadim Perelman; written by Emil Stern based on the book by Laura Kasischke; director of photography Pawel Edelman; edited by David Baxter; music by James Horner; production designer Maia Javan; produced by Mr. Perelman Aimee Peyronnet and Anthony Katagas; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." it will leave you feeling sucker-punched." overly schematic style as Mr. Perelman’s 2003 filmmaking debut “House of Sand and Fog.”  That movie an adaptation of a novel by Andre Dubus III transcended its pretensions because it had a more compelling story and a gripping central performance by Ben Kingsley." statuesque  woman at 17 and 32. The troubled teenage rebel is a role  Ms. Wood has played before and she carries it off with her usual effortless grace. Looking into her eyes you glimpse the desperate reckless impatience of a girl in that precarious stage of development where the mind hasn’t caught up with the body and the personality is still half-formed." Diana (Evan Rachel Wood) and Maureen (Eva Amurri) are polar opposites. Diana smoldering and rebellious is the bad girl and Maureen proper and churchgoing is the goody-goody. If the movie directed by Vadim Perelman and adapted from a novel by Laura Kasischke  (Emil Stern wrote the screenplay) doesn’t make this friendship entirely credible that is partly because it keeps you hyperaware of its own meticulous structure and insistent leitmotifs: water blooming flowers and thunder and lightning at every dramatic juncture." Evan Rachel Wood (Teenage Diana) Eva Amurri (Maureen) Gabrielle Brennan (Emma) Brett Cullen (Paul) Jack Gilpin (Mr. McCleod) and Oscar Isaac (Marcus)." Paul (Brett Cullen) a philosophy professor delivers a ponderous lecture on conscience. The film has already signaled in a hundred ways that Diana 15 years after the massacre still feels terribly guilty about it. The day before the shootings the killer had informed her of his intentions but because she thought he was joking she didn’t tell anyone. And in any case she shared his hatred of school." Mr. McCleod (Jack Gilpin) is a biology teacher who tells the class that the body is 72 percent water. Water is shown jetting out of a pipe in the girls’ restroom after the gunman randomly opens fire and one of Ms. Wood’s love scenes with a scruffy boy from the wrong side of the tracks takes place in a swimming pool. References are made to Paul Gauguin whose Tahitian painting “Where Do We Come From? What Are We? Where Are We Going?” is the topic of discussion in an art class taught in the present by the grown-up Diana (Uma Thurman)." Ms. Thurman walks around with the anxious scowl of someone hiding from herself. The mother of Emma (Gabrielle Brennan) an 8-year-old who has inherited her mischievous streak Diana is afraid of everything. Emma has developed a habit of regularly running away from her Roman Catholic girls’ school;  Diana is summoned and warned that her daughter’s behavior is unacceptable. Much of the story unfolds on the 15th anniversary of the massacre." continually doubling back on itself to revisit the trauma from which all else evolves. Each peekaboo flashback  reveals a teeny bit more of a life-and-death confrontation in a high school girls’ restroom between two best friends and a deranged teenage gunman during a Columbine-like massacre." predictable excruciatingly fussy in its details and lacking the tiniest glimmer of humor “The Life Before Her Eyes” contradicts the director’s claim in the production notes that the movie “is not a perfectly ordered experience with clear causes and effects.” As it plods along decorously you have the sense of  reading a poetic essay in which every image and metaphor is hammered too neatly in place." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18king.html
some of them fairly brutal." ” which often drags in the expository sections between set pieces. But many of the set pieces are dazzling even if by now audiences may be a bit jaded by high-flying wire work and artful blends of computer-generated imagery and traditional production design." the film works well enough as a primer for latecomers and a fix for insatiable martial arts lovers. If you’ve never seen a movie like this it might satisfy your curiosity; if you can’t get enough of this kind of movie nothing I say about it would keep you away." a heavy brocade of martial honor and blurry mysticism and above all a lot of wildly inventive fighting. The battles were choreographed by Yuen Wo Ping one of the supreme masters of the art and shot by Peter Pau whose credits as a cinematographer include “Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon.”" as does a white-haired witch (Li Bing Bing). Accompanying the monk the drunk and the kid from Boston is a young woman named Golden Sparrow (Liu Yifei) a fearsome warrior in her own right who seeks to avenge the death of her parents." the movie shows the lavish artificiality that is in the currently booming Chinese film industry a sign of authenticity. Mr. Chan made his name in scruffier scrappier Hong Kong entertainments but as he has aged into an international superstar he has come to seem at home just about everywhere. Here he plays two roles: an elderly junk dealer in 21st-century Boston and an itinerant fighter specializing in the “drunken fist” style of combat in a mythic ancient China." “Forbidden Kingdom” is a faithful and disarmingly earnest attempt to honor some venerable and popular Chinese cinematic traditions." both in the mythic past: the mischievous Monkey King (who uses  — what else? —  monkey kung fu fighting techniques) and a monk. After an inconclusive and thrilling battle — surely the high point of the movie — the monk and Mr. Chan’s character join forces to help Jason who has been transported to their world by a magic staff that once belonged to the Monkey King." Jet Li (Silent Monk/Monkey King) Collin Chou (Jade Warlord) Liu Yifei (Golden Sparrow) Li Bing Bing (Ni Chang) and Michael Angarano (Jason Tripitikas)." ” the first movie to unite the martial arts action stars Jackie Chan and Jet Li might be mistaken for a pastiche of its genre. Its main character a Boston teenager named Jason (Michael Angarano) is obsessed with kung fu cinema and the ways of modern Hollywood might lead you to expect the filmmakers to mock travesty or wink at this obsession." Peter Pau; edited by Eric Strand; music by David Buckley; action choreography by Yuen Wo Ping; production designer Bill Brzeski; produced by Casey Silver; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18glas.html
Mr. Hicks; edited by Stephen Jess; produced by Mr. Hicks and Susanne Preissler; released by Koch Lorber Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes. This film is not rated." Scott Hicks’s “Glass: A Portrait of Philip in Twelve  Parts” is much like its subject: affable quotable and emotionally guarded in the extreme." “Glass” proceeds genteelly through an intellectually inquisitive and deeply spiritual life. Balancing prodigious musical commitments with qigong and Taoism Mr. Glass who turned 71 in January maintains a rigorous daily schedule that would daunt any man half his age. Somewhere on the fringes his current wife Holly Critchlow and two infant children provide the sounds and comforts of family." almost in spite of himself becomes hypnotized by Ms. Critchlow’s  sudden confession of emotional pain. While the camera clings to her massive brown eyes the film falls awkwardly silent: like a lightning bolt on a gloomy day her unexpected outburst is more harshly illuminating than anything that has gone before." Mr. Glass — like his music — remains frustratingly distant. Interviews with friends siblings and artistic collaborators like the artist Chuck Close and the filmmaker Errol Morris (“Philip does existential dread better than anyone”) only bolster the film’s admiring and self-satisfied tone." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18forg.html
Paul Rudd as a surfing instructor Bill Hader as the brother back home in Los Angeles — and a few newish dudes (notably Jack McBrayer and Da’vone McDonald) stepping up to deliver YouTube-ready riffs on matters of eros and pop culture. (Politics the actual YouTube obsession of the moment doesn’t really exist in Mr. Apatow’s world.)" curiously enough is what catches Rachel’s eye in the first place. Her attraction to Peter originates not in lust but rather in pity. Something similar happened in “Freaks and Geeks ” when Linda Cardellini’s character started going out with Mr. Segel’s  largely because she felt sorry for him. In that case though the girl’s point of view was much more central and the shakiness of the ensuing adolescent relationship was both funnier and truer than this grown-up variation on it." the filmmakers forgo the cheap and easy thrill of female nudity preferring the display of male flesh for comic effect. Ms. Bell Ms. Kunis and Maria Thayer (as a voracious honeymooner in an amusing subplot) keep their tops and bottoms covered even when vigorously feigning naked passion. Mr. Segel however appears near the beginning of the film and again toward the end in his unclothed entirety a spectacle that I must report did not entirely impress a quite vocal woman a few rows behind me at the sneak preview. Mr. Segel’s willingness to face the kind of criticism she voiced is surely to his credit." Russ T. Alsobrook; edited by William Kerr; music by Lyle Workman; production designer Jackson de Govia; produced by Judd Apatow and Shauna Robertson; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." Kristen Bell (Sarah Marshall) Mila Kunis (Rachel Jansen) Russell Brand (Aldous Snow) Bill Hader (Brian Bretter) Jonah Hill (Matthew the Waiter) Da’vone McDonald (Dwayne the Bartender) Paul Rudd (Chuck) Maria Thayer (Wyoma) and Jack McBrayer (Darald)." so who can begrudge them a few weeks of surf sun babes and fun? I don’t know if Mr. Apatow himself a producer of this movie (the director is the first-timer Nicholas Stoller) went along for the trip. The members of his troupe who did managed to squeeze in enough work to placate the I.R.S. and also that segment of the audience myself included whose appetite for naturally sweetened raunch has not yet abated." anyway which is not the same thing. Once in Hawaii Peter meets — in addition to a beachful of amusing bit players — the friendly dark-haired receptionist you kind of suspect will be Sarah’s replacement. Her name is Rachel she is played by Mila Kunis and she has for purposes of symmetry her own history of romantic trouble. But the bad boyfriend in her past may not be quite enough to establish the enabling conceit that a woman like this would be (a) unattached and (b) likely to fall for Peter." author of the film’s screenplay and a fixture in Mr. Apatow’s universe since the television series “Freaks and Geeks ” takes his allotted turn as the romantic lead which is to say as a slobby goofy but basically decent fellow navigating the uncertain waters of modern sexual ethics. He does so at an island resort where the evening sun bathes the palm trees in honeyed light and imparts a gemlike sparkle to the Pacific Ocean." after all a breakup comedy and its overall jollity is streaked with some raw emotions including jealousy heartache and humiliation. A few minutes in Peter Bretter (Mr. Segel) a composer who writes the music for a television cop series is peremptorily dumped by Sarah Marshall (Kristen Bell) his girlfriend of five years who is one of the show’s stars. Sarah has taken up with a louche longhaired British rocker Aldous Snow (Russell Brand) with whom she escapes to the same vacation spot where Peter after a montage of meaningless hookups goes to heal his battered soul. An important axiom is thus established early on: To a single gainfully employed man in Los Angeles sex comes easily. Love however is hard." needy ingratiating Labrador retriever of a man — and to orchestrate a comedy of betrayal and cruelty that rarely feels meanspirited. For much of the movie’s first half Sarah seems to be a climber and a two-timer cheating on her devoted unglamorous boyfriend and then ditching him for an oversexed celebrity. But at least briefly the perspective is flipped as Sarah accompanied by illustrative flashbacks gently and persuasively explains to Peter what a drag he was when they were together — what a mopey self-absorbed loser." “Forgetting Sarah Marshall” does not entirely play by the established conventions of its genre. Its willingness to explore states of feeling and modes of behavior that tamer romantic comedies never go near is decidedly a virtue though this same sense of daring and candor also exposes its limitations." lazy emotional wrecks but as long as they crack jokes some action will come their way. Girls ideally should have a sense of humor — mainly so they can laugh at those jokes — but for the most part they should look good in a bikini and like sex (though not too much and not anything too weird). Maybe someday though probably not under Mr. Apatow’s aegis a relatively ordinary-looking woman will have a sex comedy of her own." in the end especially credible or interesting. That the contrastingly but equally gorgeous Rachel and Sarah end up as rivals for Peter’s favor is likely to flatter the self-esteem — or at least feed the fantasies — of doughy underachieving regular guys across America. Which is nice for them us whatever." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18firs.html
” a glib lazy documentary about six trainers on the proverbial road to the 2006 Kentucky Derby. This is after all a movie about horse trainers that tells you next to nothing about what horse trainers do besides stand around paddocks issuing vague instructions to the grooms or staring nervously wistfully and stoically at the racetrack. Do the trainers determine a horse’s feed or its racing schedule? Do they choose the drugs that are regularly pumped into these magnificent animals? Or do the owners make those calls? Don’t look here for answers." their feature debut the brothers John and Brad Hennegan were not obliged to create a documentary about doping and death in thoroughbred racing. But given that they don’t address even the basics of horse training in a movie about horse trainers you have to wonder what they thought they were making. They clearly enjoy the company of the trainers some of whom come across rather better than others notably Kiaran McLaughlin who trained Jazil the winner of the 2006 Belmont Stakes the third leg of the Triple Crown. Yet the filmmakers remain strangely incurious about these six men who have all  staked their careers on expensive scarily fragile four-legged animals that they don’t own  and in some cases seem basically indifferent to." who trained Barbaro.  On May 6 2006 after having been raced only once in the previous 13 weeks Barbaro won the Derby by a thrillingly wide margin; two weeks later he was run in the Preakness Stakes (the second race in the Triple Crown) where he sustained the leg injury that eventually led to his being euthanized. His death generated the usual blather: one so-called expert noted that all sports entail risk while ignoring that it’s only animals that also risk being put down. But there was also some soul-searching from trainers and sportswriters who wondered if thoroughbreds were unnecessarily being placed in harm’s way." the spectacular filly who was fatally injured in 1975. Horse racing is a sensationally exciting spectator sport of course but it’s also a troubled one filled with dirty little half-kept secrets. Almost two horses die for every 1 000 starts in this country which adds up to a lot of dead animals." ” and if his name weren’t being used in the marketing the movie’s lapses might be forgivable. It would still be a bad documentary marred by dribbling camerawork and pointless choices — a ha-ha scene of one trainer golfing with hard liquor  and a fat cousin filler images of Derby crowds in wacky hats and far too many shots of the trainers staring into the distance — but it wouldn’t smack of exploitation. Then again given that one of the movie’s distributors  is Churchill Downs Inc. which owns and operates racetracks and is the host of  the Derby it’s no wonder that this feels like a feature-length commercial for the horse racing industry. It is." 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/movies/18expe.html
“Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed” is a conspiracy-theory rant masquerading as investigative inquiry." like the author and Oxford professor Richard Dawkins — accurately identified on screen as an “atheist” — are provided solely to construct in cleverly edited slices an inevitable connection between Darwinism and godlessness. Blithely ignoring the vital distinction between social and scientific Darwinism the film links evolution theory to fascism (as well as abortion euthanasia and eugenics) shamelessly invoking the Holocaust with black-and-white film of Nazi gas chambers and mass graves." Mr. Frankowski; edited by Simon Tondeur; music by Andy Hunter and Robbie Bronnimann; produced by Logan Craft Walt Ruloff and John Sullivan; released by Premise Media. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." the film frames the refusal of “big science” to agree  as nothing less than an assault on free speech. Interviewees including the scientist Richard  Sternberg claim that questioning Darwinism led to their expulsion from the scientific fold (the film relies extensively on the post hoc ergo propter hoc fallacy — after this therefore because of this) while our genial audience surrogate the actor and multihyphenate Ben Stein nods sympathetically. (Mr. Stein is also a freelance columnist who writes Everybody’s Business for The New York Times.)" it’s circus a distraction from the film’s contempt for precision and intellectual rigor. This goes further than a willful misunderstanding of the scientific method. The film suggests for example that Dr. Sternberg lost his job at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History because of intellectual discrimination but neglects to inform us that he was actually not an employee but rather an unpaid research associate who had completed his  three-year term." eliding and refusal to define terms the movie proves that the only expulsion here is of reason itself." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/12/movies/12prom.html
“Prom Night” is a curiously flaccid affair dampened by a risible villain (Johnathon Schaech) and a bloodless script that channels all its tension into the choosing of the prom king and queen. Demonstrating little except the uselessness of a restraining order against a loony-tunes admirer the movie offers less gore than the average Band-Aid commercial and fewer scares than the elimination episodes of “Dancing With the Stars.” But then maybe I’m just not sophisticated enough." ” made at a time when the filleting of young girls was more of  a cinematic novelty." Ms. Curtis’s award-worthy screams have  been replaced by Brittany Snow’s generic whimpers as Donna sole survivor of a stalker who killed her family three years earlier and who has chosen the night of her senior prom to finish the job." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11visi.html
Walter plods through an existence that looks comfortable and easy enough but also profoundly tedious. He recycles old syllabuses and lecture notes for his classes and suffers through piano lessons in a half-hearted effort to sustain some kind of connection to his wife who was a classical concert pianist." decent and disinclined to call attention to himself traits that pose an obvious challenge to Mr. Jenkins who must still make this man interesting enough vivid enough to carry the film’s dramatic burden. Walter himself at his best might insist that the story is not really about him. He after all leads a life of privilege and entitlement and is unlikely ever to be faced with homelessness exile or deportation. And yet the film’s title refers to him — a transient presence in his own life —as much as it does to Tarek who seems at home wherever he is." and to convey an inner transformation brought about by a shy unselfish engagement with other people. How does he do it? Great acting is always almost by definition something of a mystery a blend of technique and instinct for which no identifiable formula exists. Mr. Jenkins’s posture his balked  smile the occasional fidget of his hands or pause in his stride — all of these almost subliminally communicate something about who Walter is so that by the end of the film we feel we know him very well. And more than that that he is someone worth knowing." Haaz Sleiman (Tarek) Danai Gurira (Zainab) and Hiam Abbass (Mouna)." multicultural idyll is shattered when Tarek who like Zainab is in the United States illegally is picked up by the police and taken to a detention center in Queens. Shortly thereafter his mother Mouna played by the wonderful Israeli Arab actress Hiam Abbass arrives from Michigan to make Walter’s life still more interesting and complicated." middle-aged white man liberated from his uptightness by an infusion of Third World soulfulness attached to an exposé of the cruelty of post-9/11 immigration policies — that would be obvious and sentimental an exercise in cultural condescension and liberal masochism. Indeed it’s nearly impossible to imagine it any other way." he is in a state of emotional inertia that clinicians might identify as depression. He does not seem acutely unhappy but then again he doesn’t seem to feel much at all locking whatever inner life he might have behind an aloof unfailingly polite demeanor and keeping a glass of red wine handy in case further anesthesia should prove necessary." it still manages to surprise you along the way. Tarek and Walter quickly become friends though Zainab is more reserved and also clearly more suspicious of her new housemate and benefactor. Walter takes up drumming and begins to feel his zest for life and his appreciation of  New York returning after a long period of dormancy." for the most part dissolved by the clarity and simplicity of Mr. McCarthy’s direction and even more by the quiet precision of Mr. Jenkins’s performance. An actor himself (he recently played Scott Templeton the journalistic rat on “The Wire”) Mr. McCarthy scrupulously avoids big moments and telegraphed emotions and Mr. Jenkins a durable character actor known to HBO subscribers as the spectral father on “Six Feet Under ” plays his repressed circumspect character with exquisite tact. Walter loses his composure only once and even then Mr. Jenkins keeps the outburst within the boundaries of his shy professorial temperament." astonishingly enough Mr. McCarthy has. Much as “The Station Agent” nimbly evaded the obstacles of cuteness and willful eccentricity it had strewn in its own path so does “The Visitor ” with impressive grace and understatement resist potential triteness and phony uplift." ” Tom McCarthy’s second film as writer and director (the first was “The Station Agent”) it seems inevitable that something will come along to shake Walter out of his malaise. And sure enough when he reluctantly travels to New York to deliver a paper at a conference Walter finds that the Manhattan apartment he keeps but rarely visits has been surreptitiously rented to Tarek (Haaz Sleiman) a drummer from Syria and Zainab (Danai Gurira) his Senegalese girlfriend who sells handmade jewelry at flea markets. Walter’s initial dismay and irritation gives way to an instinctive flicker of compassion and he invites the couple to stay at least for a short while." Oliver Bokelberg; edited by Tom McArdle; music by Jan A. P. Kaczmarek; production designer John Paino; produced by Mary Jane Skalski and Michael London; released by Overture Films. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." and the blossoming of his friendship with Walter proceeds a little too quickly and smoothly to be entirely credible. Long-term houseguests however appealing and exotic would surely test the patience of even the saintliest economist to say nothing of an evident curmudgeon like Walter." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11dham.html
produced and directed by Jenny Phillips Andrew Kukura and Anne Marie Stein; director of photography Jeremy Leach; edited by Mr. Kukura; released by Balcony Releasing. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 16 minutes. This film is not rated." ’ ” says Bruce Stewart one of the program’s two teachers. For men like Mr. Bankhead that may be the only freedom they will ever know." ” a thinking-head documentary about finding answers within for those who can’t get out." Andrew Kukura and Anne Marie Stein “The Dhamma Brothers” offers a constructive alternative to the hopelessness of human warehousing. Opening up her film to include prison staff (cautiously impressed with the students’ behavioral changes) inmates’ families and members of the public Ms. Phillips candidly documents the mixed emotions and institutional conflicts aroused by the introduction of a Buddhist practice in a predominantly Christian prison." Ala. one of the most violent prisons in North America this provocative film follows a small group of inmates through a strict course of Vipassana meditation. For nine days participants must abstain from talking (as well as from killing stealing and intoxicants) and follow a regimented schedule of meals rest and “noble silence.” According to the convicted murderer Grady Bankhead those nine days were tougher than his eight years on Death Row." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11smar.html
whose refusal to act his age seems as defiant and deliberate as his brother’s decision to act much older than his crashes in Lawrence’s guest room and strikes up an occasionally awkward friendship with Vanessa. Lawrence meanwhile pursues an equally awkward affair with Janet whose consequent rivalry with Vanessa is both unstated and unmistakable." though what these two films — one a restrained drama the other a frisky comedy — share is less the situation of their main characters than the superior work of the men who portray them. There is something about impersonating thwarted intellectuals their early promise and ambition fading into vanity and irrelevance that inspires a certain kind of actor to tap into deep veins of pathos and wit. Jeff Daniels struck the modern template for this kind of performance in “The Squid and the Whale ” and in their different ways Mr. Jenkins and Mr. Quaid live up to his high standard." but the great virtue of “Smart People ” attributable to Noam Murro’s easygoing direction as well as to Mr. Poirier’s wandering screenplay lies in its general preference for small insights over grand revelations. There is a fairly busy plot and some of its developments — an unplanned pregnancy a flicker of quasi-incestuous sexual interest the acceptance of a poem by The New Yorker — clatter onto the screen like carelessly flung darts. But to a greater extent than in most comedies the narrative seems more like background or scaffolding than like the engine that drives the characters who are propelled instead by their own colliding confusing idiosyncratic energies." Richard Jenkins plays an economist whose flagging joie de vivre is restored when he takes up drumming. “Smart People” is more or less the same deal except that its protagonist played by Dennis Quaid is a specialist in Victorian literature and his flagging joie de vivre is restored when he goes to bed with Sarah Jessica Parker. Whatever gets you through the semester I guess." widowed college professor — and don’t pretend you aren’t — then this is a weekend of rare and unexpected abundance. By some miracle of film industry serendipity two such movies are opening today in limited release. Even more bizarre: each is pretty good." but the filmmakers don’t force them into preordained postures of redemption. They are defiantly fixed in their personalities even as they show — and eventually acknowledge — some room for improvement. But none undergo the kind of hokey wholesale transformations that too often turn brisk comedies into damp melodramas. They and the filmmakers are too proud — and too smart — for that kind of nonsense. The ordinary nonsense of human imperfection will do just fine." the excellent script for “Smart People” is the work of Mark Jude Poirier a fiction writer who has clearly spent enough time around English departments to have studied the tribal ways of the literary professoriate with ethnographic rigor. The scenes of Lawrence in the classroom or in department meetings are among the most frighteningly comically accurate such moments I have ever seen on film." Sarah Jessica Parker (Janet Hartigan) Thomas Haden Church (Chuck Wetherhold) Ellen Page (Vanessa Wetherhold) Ashton Holmes (James Wetherhold) David Denman (William) and Camille Mana (Missy)." James (Ashton Holmes) an aspiring poet and a student at the college finds Lawrence’s imperiousness nearly intolerable while his daughter Vanessa (Ellen Page) carefully tends the flame of her father’s ego and takes him as a role model in contrarianism.  Secure in the sense of her own superiority and proud of her political conservatism Vanessa is Diablo Cody’s Juno rewritten by Ayn Rand." his handsomeness distorted and obscured by stooped shoulders a sagging belly and wayward facial hair plays Lawrence Wetherhold an English professor at Carnegie Mellon whose general unpleasantness seems less like a personality trait than like a belief system. His narcissism is a seamless coat of many colors a weave of grief for his dead wife resentment at how much the world demands of him and the conviction that he is smarter than everybody else." sour patriarch and weary pedagogue may dominate the landscape but the people surrounding him are much more than mere foils or supporting players. Ms. Page is both sharp and brittle but as she did with Juno she allows Vanessa’s callowness and uncertainty to show through her veneer of sarcastic poise. Ms. Parker as Janet Hartigan a former student of Lawrence’s whose undergraduate crush on him is revived when they meet in a hospital emergency room (she as doctor he as patient) cuts her natural charm with a very real sense of anxiety and disappointment. And above all there is Thomas Haden Church suavely stealing scenes from Mr. Quaid in the slightly implausible but nonetheless charming role of Lawrence’s ne’er-do-well adoptive brother Chuck." Toby Irwin; edited by Robert Frazen and Yana Gorskaya; music by Nuno Bettencourt; production designer Patti Podesta; produced by Bridget Johnson Michael Costigan Michael London and Bruna Papandrea; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." drug use and two lingering glances at Mr. Church’s naked buttocks." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11take.html
sex and brain surgery and the good guys smoke." especially in the textured unforced scenes of family life. The gangsters and cops are more formulaic and so is the vengeance plot. But even there you can see Mr. Furman trying to go beyond action-movie clichés." “The Take ” starring John Leguizamo as an armored-car driver who survives being shot in the head is not your average gun-toting vigilante movie. Made by the first-time feature director Brad Furman the film set in East Los Angeles is strongest when depicting daily life and its disruption in a believable working-class family." but here he gives a controlled performance as Felix De La Peña a bright jokey man whose temperament becomes combustible after he’s shot. (His supposedly diminished mental capacities don’t seem to affect him much beyond his being unable to recognize triangles.) Rosie Perez is equally good as his wife and together the two have an easy chemistry." Lukas Ettlin; edited by Luis Carballar; music by Chris Hajian; production designer Charisse Cardenas; produced by Braxton Pope and Andrew Weiner; released by Destination Films. In Manhattan at the Clearview 62nd & Broadway Theater 62 West 62nd Street. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. WITH: John Leguizamo (Felix De La Peña) Rosie Perez (Marina) Tyrese Gibson (Adell) Bobby Cannavale (Perelli) and Yul Vázquez (Marco Ruiz)." who also directs music videos has given the movie shot by Lukas Ettlin a bleached-out unglossy look. Occasionally the visuals seem overly stylized but Mr. Furman knows enough to showcase his stars’ unvarnished performances." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11neve.html
Mathew Clark; music by Michael Nyman; produced by Andrew Fierberg Lee Joon-dong and Lee Chang-dong; released by Arts Alliance America. At the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." Vera Farmiga (Sophie) and David McInnis (Andrew)." however signals are picked up and passed back and forth information leaks out and a relationship develops. So it is with most ongoing sexual relationships commercial or otherwise. Sooner or later business becomes personal. On the recent Sundance Channel reality series “Pleasure for Sale ” the relationships between prostitutes and their regular clients at the Chicken Ranch in Nevada were almost indistinguishable from longtime caring friendships but for the exchange of money." with a $30 000 cash payment if she becomes pregnant. He agrees and  they begin to have secret joyless  meetings in his decrepit tenement apartment. As the camera studies this couple struggling not to bond during their loveless encounters you feel the pain and frustration of two sensitive people denying the intimacy of their acts." and the truth comes out." expressing varying shades of panic desire and refusal to feel they signal the desperation of a woman who is driven to solve everyone’s problems at the risk of personal catastrophe. You might describe her character Sophie as the square version of Irene the drug addict Ms. Farmiga played in the 2004 movie “Down to the Bone.” That film catapulted her into Martin Scorsese’s “Departed ” in which her talents were conspicuously wasted." a beautiful well-to-do Caucasian woman is a dream girl by almost anybody’s standards and Jihah is a scruffy illegal immigrant who scrapes by with jobs at a laundry and a meatpacking company and as a mover; their relationship thus has a volatile power dynamic." the film tacks on a moony feel-good coda that makes little sense and should have been eliminated. But while “Never Forever” lingers in the thick of sex lies and anxiety it is something to see." and glowing cinematography that explores the subtly shifting body language of strangers who are having sex but avoiding intimacy partly camouflage the awkward storytelling of Gina Kim’s marital melodrama “Never Forever.”" a hard-driving Korean-American lawyer from a devoutly Christian family. Deeply depressed after tests reveal his infertility Andrew attempts suicide. Sophie responds by visiting a fertility clinic hoping to be inseminated. While there she observes Jihah (Ha Jung-woo) a young Korean her husband’s age being turned away from donating sperm because he is not an  American citizen." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11matt.html
the story inspired by a tragic incident involving a Chinese student at  the University of Iowa in 1991 addresses East-West cultural miscommunication. As one character muses in China astrology is considered a science and indoor plumbing a luxury.  In the United States visiting students are appalled to discover many children put their aging parents in retirement homes rather than care for them as they would in China." some sex and a scene of violence." Liu Ye (Liu Xing) Aidan Quinn (Jacob Reiser) and Blair Brown (Hildy)." foolishly imagining that Reiser will be impressed by his originality of thought. Reiser offended by what he views as Liu’s disloyalty and feeling his own career threatened by Liu’s radical theories angrily lectures him about waiting for his turn and being a team player. Then he sets about sabotaging his protégé’s future. The consequences are dire." Liu demonstrates scientific principles by examining cream poured into coffee. When the waitress says that she believes in God he replies that the Big Bang of creation was not the beginning of the universe but a major event in a universe that is eternal an idea that in his view is not incompatible with the concept of an eternal creator." based on a story by Mr. Chen and Mr. Shebar; director of photography Oliver Bokelberg; edited by Pam Wise and Michael Berenbaum; music by Van Dyke Parks; production designer Dina Goldman; produced by Mary Salter Andrea Miller and Janet Yang; released by First Independent Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." a wealthy patron of Chinese culture and an unofficial counselor to the visiting students who takes a maternal interest in Liu. Although Ms. Streep whose character is shown practicing tai chi is a warm welcoming presence in the movie her character is ultimately extraneous. She is there because she’s a star." Liu Xing (Liu Ye) a brilliant student of cosmology from Beijing University is one of several elite students chosen by the Chinese government to study in the United States.  He becomes the protégé of Jacob Reiser (Aidan Quinn) a leading cosmology professor. Liu who speaks in stumbling English is obsequiously worshipful  of his mentor who (in a running joke) insists  that Liu call him Jake; to Liu the notion of addressing an academic deity by his nickname is unthinkable." shown toiling as a laborer in grimy industrial settings Liu writes of his academic triumphs. But as the initially harmonious relationship between him and Reiser begins to sour Liu who dreams of winning the Nobel Prize and marrying a blond American starts telling fantasies." ” with its view of cutthroat politics and competing egos inside a university is also laudable in its refusal to soft-pedal the viciously petty side of the academic fishbowl." each titled after a different element. The ethereal voices of the Beijing Angelic Choir singing a cappella Chinese-language renditions of songs like “Beautiful Dreamer ” become a kind of Greek chorus underscoring the cross-cultural divide. Excerpts  from “Tosca” and “Madama Butterfly” are incongruously used as explicit plot pointers." ” a melodrama set in academia is both a scientific concept and a blunt metaphor. Technically it refers to a form of matter that makes up most of the universe but can’t be directly observed. Applied to human affairs it evokes the unconscious mind and the hidden destructive forces within relationships." speaks English beautifully and assimilates into American  society. If Liu’s intellectual idealism is unimpeachable he has no psychological insight. He develops an unrequited crush on an airhead waitress at a tea shop who initially confuses cosmology with cosmetology." ” directed by Chen Shi-Zheng from a screenplay by Billy Shebar is a movie of ideas that does an exemplary job of translating scientific speculation into layman’s language. The filmmaking style of Mr. Chen an internationally renowned opera director (still best known for his 20-hour “Peony Pavilion” at Lincoln Center in 1999) is considerably more formal than American audiences are accustomed to.  And that formality keeps you at a distance." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11daze.html
“Daze ” which played at film festivals last year under the title “The Beautiful Ordinary ” features crisp cinematography by Steve Gainer (whose camera flagrantly ogled the teens in Larry Clark’s “Bully”) and fluid direction by the 25-year-old Jess Manafort who also wrote the script. It’s in her favor that the re-creation of high school life depends more on memory than on imagination but a little added heart wouldn’t have hurt. Ultimately the ensemble of more than 20 featured characters seems as vapid as the intentionally caricatured adults who pop up on occasion." Los Angeles and Washington." “Dazed and Confused” (made in 1993 set in 1976) “Remember the Daze” (set in 1999) takes its cue from the earlier film in an excess of ways. Set to a soundtrack of popular tunes from the era it unspools on the last day of the school year and trails assorted students into the following morning as they party flirt hook up and even momentarily consider their futures." Melonie Diaz (Brianne) Lyndsy Fonseca (Dawn) Amber Heard (Julia Ford) Max Hoffman (Zack) Wesley Jonathan (Biz) Brie Larson (Angie) and Chris Marquette (Felix)." Steve Gainer; edited by Meg Reticker and Larry Bock; music by Dustin O’Halloran; production designer John D. Kretschmer; produced by Judd Payne Matthew Rhodes and Ms. Manafort; released by Persistent Entertainment and Mirror Cube Films. At the Village VII 66 Third Avenue at 11th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes." the film’s privileged suburbanites (with unusually good looks clear skin and lean bodies) run the gamut of standard teenage types: stoners dorks jocks cheerleaders and aspiring gangstas." large doses of drug and alcohol use and suggestions of sex." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11chao.html
as Frank recounts his woes to his soon-to-be son-in-law and in its most embarrassing recollection a drunken Susan selects a husband from among her male friends based on their nicknames for their penises. Frank’s — “Truth” — wins out. Too bad there’s actually very little truth to be found in the film." moving or amusing “Chaos Theory” suffers first and foremost from featuring the least engaging couple to headline a movie in some time. If the bland Mr. Reynolds and the grating Ms. Mortimer are Hollywood’s idea of the latest in romantic leads then we’re in trouble." Emily Mortimer (Susan Allen) Stuart Townsend (Buddy) Sarah Chalke (Paula) and Mike Erwin (Ed)." Ramsey Nickell; edited by Nicholas Erasmus; music by Gilad Benamram; production designer Sandy Cochrane; produced by Frederic Golchan and Erica Westheimer; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes." Los Angeles San Francisco Toronto Chicago Philadelphia Boston Washington Seattle and Dallas." our lives are ruled by the clock. In Marcos Siega’s “Chaos Theory ” Frank Allen (Ryan Reynolds) an uptight author and motivational speaker who teaches people how to utilize each minute efficiently tries to overcome time’s tyranny by strictly following self-imposed schedules and lists." Susan (Emily Mortimer) playfully turns the clock back one morning sets off a chain of increasingly absurd events that forces him to reassess his domestic bliss; his caddish best friend Buddy (Stuart Townsend);  and his approach to life in general." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11bra.html
a depressed Sydney suburb the notorious Boys — proudly described by a founder Sunny Abberton as “one of the most infamous surf tribes in the world” — fight carouse and ride the waves as if oceanic evaporation were imminent. Archival film of bloody confrontations with police and local gangs gives way to knockabout interviews with tribe members and big-wave legends like Laird Hamilton. The overall effect is a kind of Down Under Spring Break minus the scantily clothed coeds." directed and produced by Sunny Abberton; director of photography Marcario De Souza; edited by Mr. De Souza; music by Jamie Holt; released by Berkela Films. Narrated by Russell Crowe. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes." rowdy movie is also unexpectedly touching in its embrace of surfing as an escape from the stigma of poverty and broken homes. Escape from Russell Crowe’s droning narration however is impossible." part image rehabilitation “Bra Boys” makes no pretense of impartiality. Written directed and produced by Mr. Abberton and other group members the film leans heavily on positives like the Boys’ peace-brokering efforts during the Sydney race riots in 2005. In addition a murder trial involving two of Mr. Abberton’s three brothers receives the full soap-opera treatment playing down awkward details in favor of easy emotion." but it’s not the one you think: in the disheveled Australian documentary “Bra Boys ” the obsession is not lingerie but surfing." set themselves on fire and use incomprehensible Aussie slang." N.Y.; Los Angeles; Southern California; and Hawaii." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/11/movies/11stre.html
its preposterously kinky narrative turns and overwrought jawing and yowling but there’s no doubt that it also keeps you watching really watching all the way to the end. The film can be unintentionally often grotesquely funny nowhere more so than during the grandiose finale when Mr. Whitaker — never what you might call a quiet actor to begin with — cuts crazy loose and starts popping his eyes and sputtering the spit. What Mr. Ayer doesn’t appear to have realized — a mistake shared by Brian De Palma in his unfortunate adaptation of Mr. Ellroy’s crime novel “The Black Dahlia” — is that you don’t need to gild a 24-karat lily. It’s plenty shiny already." a prime cut of  beef who’s part of a cultish multicultural wrecking crew run by the silkily smooth Capt. Jack Wander (Forest Whitaker). A loner by violent disposition and tragic (dead wife) history Tom bursts into the film breaking any number of laws and immediately enters a hell on earth (that would be Los Angeles) with bullets blood shattered bone and underage sex slaves. Good times! More seriously and this is nothing  if not a deeply serious movie (I think) there are nothing  but bad times ahead with even more blood — smeared splattered splashed and sprayed — mixed in with  vivid night photography thumping tunes boyz in the hood ornamental women casual racist insults and a lot of manly shouting." stripped of fear and almost without any pity (especially for himself) Tom has no sense that he’s fighting for someone else’s gain. Mr. Reeves his face and body somewhat thickened perhaps by age or the role or both looks like a middleweight boxer who’s reached the end of a very hard and long road. (Robert Ryan  had a lock on this type in  the 1940s and ’50s.)  Mr.  Reeves’s  natural sobriety works well for the part as does his ability to play it stiff and straight and  a touch stupid. Tom’s slow-dawning awareness of the world he inhabits and his awful place in it is terribly obvious as is his  metamorphosis but neither is it devoid of pathos." who wrote “Training Day” and directed  “Harsh Times ” invests his work with palpable energy — his films feel urgent and at times interestingly close to desperate — but he has  next to no idea how to control or channel all that manic intensity. Much as he does in “Harsh Times ” he starts this new film in overdrive and keeps it there all the way to the exhausted exhausting end piling violent moment upon violent moment. And much like “Training Day” (in which Denzel Washington plays a swaggeringly corrupt cop) and “Harsh Times” (Christian Bale doing the wigged-out war veteran thing) this film pivots on a man who having been schooled in violence and rewarded for lessons too well learned has become captive to his own brutality." ” the movies have generally failed to capture the true tone and texture of his dark places. Certainly that’s the case with David Ayer’s absurd if accidentally entertaining potboiler “Street Kings ”  based on a story by Mr. Ellroy who also shares screenwriting credit with Kurt Wimmer and Jamie Moss. The premise — the existence of an ultraviolent gang of cops operating inside the Los Angeles Police Department and wholly outside the law — has a vintage Ellroy tang though it also pointedly summons up a host of that city’s  authentic police corruption scandals from the 1930s through the 1990s." Forest Whitaker (Capt. Jack Wander) Hugh Laurie (Capt. James Biggs) Chris Evans (Detective Paul Diskant) Martha Higareda (Grace Garcia) Naomie Harris (Linda Washington) Jay Mohr (Sgt. Mike Clady) John Corbett (Detective Dante Demille) Amaury Nolasco (Detective Cosmo Santos) Terry Crews (Detective Terrence Washington) Cedric the Entertainer (Scribble) Common (Coates) and the Game (Grill)." the self-described “demon dog” of American crime fiction writes in a baroque pulp prose style that hurtles along the page like a speed freak in a rocket an image that I probably lifted from one of his books. In his fiction and nonfiction he rushes  forward fast fast fast pausing regularly to do a little scat singing (“a hypodermic full of hyper-hazy health-hazarding” stuff from a 1998 short story called “Hush-Hush”) or to blow a hole through the page. He’s a demon dog all right with a bite as sharp as his bark." Kurt Wimmer and Jamie Moss based on a story by Mr. Ellroy; director of photography Gabriel Beristain;  edited by Jeffrey Ford; music by Graeme Revell; production designer Alec Hammond; produced by Lucas Foster Alexandra Milchan and Erwin Stoff; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/10/movies/10tehi.html
with English subtitles) by Mr. Nadjari and Vincent Poymiro; director of photography Laurent Brunet; edited by Sean Foley; music by Nathaniel Mechaly; produced by Geoffroy Grison Fred Bellaïche Marek Rozenbaum and Itai Tamir. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art 11 West 53rd Street. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." “Tehilim” finds its greatest resonance in the clash between Eli’s secular-born wife Alma (Limor Goldstein) and his rigidly observant father Shmuel (Ilan Dar). Irritated by her father-in-law’s commandeering of her home for prayer vigils Alma rebels. Prayer may be comforting to her relatives but it’s no help when dealing with household bills a frozen bank account and government red tape." the introverted family drama “Tehilim” circles an unsolved mystery and unresolved emotions." Raphaël Nadjari’s minimalist tale studies the effects of loss on a middle-class Jewish family. When Eli Frankel (Shmuel Vilojni) inexplicably disappears after a car accident his departure forces faith and pragmatism into bitter conflict. While his elder son Menachem (Michael Moshonov) withdraws into anger and orthodoxy the younger son David (Yonathan Alster) simply feels confused and abandoned." “Tehilim” is finally too inhibited to evoke the full weight of grief. Bogged down in theological discussion and lengthy readings from Scripture the movie stifles imagination with exposition. If your goal is to illuminate the tension between Orthodox and Reform Judaism losing your audience in liturgy may not be the best strategy." Limor Goldstein (Alma) Ilan Dar (Shmuel) Yonathan Alster (David) Yoav Hayit (Aharon) and Shmuel Vilojni (Eli)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/09/movies/09youn.html
opera or show tunes. These rock songs are unfamiliar. Instead of comfortable walks around the block rehearsals (there are three a week) are demanding hikes over hilly terrain. The challenge only makes it more exciting." a fluctuating group of about two dozen singers whose average age is 80 perform “Stayin’ Alive” by the Bee Gees in Stephen Walker’s documentary “Young@Heart” is to be uplifted if slightly unsettled." Bob Cilman the members  are learning new material including “Yes We Can Can ” the Allen Toussaint hit for the Pointer Sisters whose lyrics repeat  “can” 71 times in intricate staccato patterns; Sonic Youth’s enigmatic equally demanding “Schizophrenia”; and the Coldplay ballad “Fix You.”" the notion of a generation gap begins to crumble. Apart from the rebellious attitude behind the songs’ creation these are elementary meat-and-potatoes tunes: “Sing Along With Mitch” material but with a hip credential." Bob Salvini and Joe Benoit died within a week. Although neither death was a complete surprise occurring so close together they come as shock to a group dedicated to living in the present as fully and exuberantly as possible. The upbeat realism of everyone connected with “Young@Heart” might be summarized in six words: Life goes on until it doesn’t." the song is no longer about strutting through the urban jungle with your elbows out; it is a blunt survival anthem. These singers most of them well-rehearsed amateurs refuse to go gently into that good night. For them music is oxygen." which interpreted by people of advanced age could be taken as a stubborn assertion of choosing life over death. “I Wanna Be Sedated ” an extremely catchy song any way you look at it comes across as an ironic  refusal to follow a doctor’s orders and lie back in a medicated haze. Members who suffer from chronic multiple ailments are shown struggling out of sickbeds to attend rehearsals." Sally George. The wittiest created around “Road to Nowhere” by Talking Heads depicts singers happily stranded on the side of an American highway." Mass. the chorus has developed into a popular local ensemble with an international reputation. It has made 12 tours of Australia Europe and Canada and serenaded Norwegian royalty. Accompanying the singers is a solid core of professional rock musicians who help ground their sometimes wavering voices." Eddie Marritz; edited by Chris King; produced by Sally George; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." made for British television risks being a cloying rose-colored study of happy old folks at play and the cheer sounds forced. But the lives of the several members it examines at some depth are too real and complicated to resemble a commercial starring Wilford Brimley as a Norman Rockwell grandpa. The movie offers an encouraging vision of old age in which the depression commonly associated with decrepitude is held at bay by music making camaraderie and a sense of humor." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/09/movies/09body.html
“Body of War” is impossible not to like but difficult to admire. Produced and directed by Ellen Spiro and Phil Donahue (yes that Phil Donahue) the movie uses the wrenching story of one American soldier to mount an angry if unfocused jeremiad against the war in Iraq." Ms. Spiro who has a long-term  history in nonfiction film carefully and unobtrusively follows Mr. Young through  his day-to-day life in  observational fashion. You watch Mr. Young struggle to put on his clothes labor to sit up straight in his wheelchair and fight with the very people who are trying to help him including his endlessly patient mother Cathy Smith. In time you also see this appealing young man turn into a committed antiwar activist a trajectory that takes him from murmuring in front of his television to speechmaking alongside mothers whose sons have died in Iraq including the antiwar activist Cindy Sheehan." Tomas Young a 24-year-old new Army enlistee from Kansas City Mo. arrived in Iraq. Almost immediately he was in the Walter Reed Army Medical Center (“Home of Warrior Care ” as its Web site puts it) on the unfathomably difficult mend from a bullet that left him paralyzed from the chest down. This then is the body of war of the movie’s title a body ravaged by physical and psychological wounds a body hunched  and writhing in pain. Over  the course of the movie you become extraordinarily acquainted with this body which Mr. Young offers up to the camera — to us — with remarkable intimacy and trust largely as a cautionary example though also because this body is itself damning evidence against the war." Ms. Spiro; edited by Bernadine Colish;  music by Jeff Layton Eddie Vedder Bright Eyes Michael Franti and the Lafayette Baptist Church Choir of Brooklyn; released by Film Sales Company. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. This film is not rated." however and it’s this body that throws the documentary off kilter and eventually off course: Congress. Throughout the movie Mr. Donahue and Ms. Spiro insert visual and sound clips of various lawmakers from Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Fred Thompson (both “yea”) to Senators Robert C. Byrd and Lincoln Chafee (both “nay”) during their 2002 deliberations to grant President Bush authority to invade Iraq. Using the vote as a countdown to the inevitable complete with the pounding sound of a gavel certainly captures your attention. But much like the blaringly intrusive music  sprinkled throughout the countdown adds nothing substantial or meaningful to a documentary that makes its strongest points when it sticks close to Mr. Young." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/09/movies/09stal.html
from the 1961 trial of the high-ranking Nazi Adolf Eichmann which exposed sexual abuse within concentration camps to the works of K. Tzetnik a Holocaust historian or fabricator depending on whom you ask. (His books recounted similar atrocities.)" which were written under American pseudonyms in a style that suggested translation. (They were in fact done in Hebrew by Israeli writers some of whom appear on screen.) The film examines the rise and fall of this short-lived craze and the doors it opened for discussing the Holocaust a previously hush-hush subject in Israel." ” an intriguing 16 minutes of trickery that offer a seemingly biographical portrait of a female artist and writer and is a warm-up exercise in how society perceives indecency. “Stalags” carries this line of inquiry forward cramming an overwhelming amount of information and ideas into its 63 minutes — not nearly enough time to explore satisfactorily all that it raises." possibly anti-Semitic novels that detailed sensational tales of the torture and rape of male concentration camp prisoners by curvaceous female Nazi guards rapidly rose from marginal pulp reading to mass-market popularity." with English subtitles; directors of photography Uri Levi and Dror Lebendiger; edited by Morris Ben-Mayor; produced by Mr. Libsker and Barak Heymann. Shown with a 16-minute Hebrew-language short film Roee Rosen’s “Two Women and a Man ” at Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 3 minutes. These films are not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/07/movies/07camp.html
” a fascinating Japanese documentary opening Monday at the Museum of Modern Art is likely to challenge some very basic American assumptions about democracy. Not about its virtues as a political system necessarily but more about the kind of person who runs for office. We tend both to reward and to criticize candidates who show outsize ambition even when seeking low-level offices and  to employ  a vocabulary of clichés —  Do you have what it takes? A fire in the belly?  —  to describe the passion that drives aspirants to kiss babies and shake hands in pursuit of power." ” in contrast seems to be running in a 2005 by-election —  for a city council  seat in  Kawasaki a city near   Tokyo —    because he has nothing better to do. Or rather because the party bosses who engineer his campaign and control his every action in the course of it couldn’t find anyone better. Since they belong to the ruling Liberal Democrats and expect to hold the seat in any case they don’t necessarily need or want a charismatic firebrand. They have one at the head of  the party in the person of Junichiro Koizumi who was then prime minister. Kazuhiko Yamauchi a 40-year-old entrepreneur of sorts with no political experience seems immature anxious deeply confused and eager to please. Hardly a stirring campaigner he dutifully leaflets outside of subway stations and bows before his masters who exclude him from meetings and barely allow him to participate in his own rallies." directed and produced by Kazuhiro Soda seems to be a long inside joke at Mr. Yamauchi’s expense. His puppyish enthusiasm and meek obedience make him seem like a fool the obliging puppet of an efficient and impersonal political machine. (Why the party didn’t choose his more poised and polished wife to run is an interesting question though perhaps one that answers itself.) But as “Campaign” winds on toward a rather anticlimactic election day Yama-san as the candidate is known becomes sympathetic as well as pathetic. And Mr. Soda’s close observation of the Japanese political process suggests a broader critique of a society deeply committed to rituals of public humiliation." with English subtitles; director of photography Mr. Soda. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 2 hours. This film is not rated." come to think of it describe campaigning in other countries too. Appreciation of this film hardly depends on an intimate knowledge of or interest in Japanese politics; the candidate and his prospective constituents don’t manifest much of either. Instead Mr. Soda uses tried-and-true fly-on-the-wall techniques to create a real-life satire. “Campaign” may invite a certain skepticism about democracy but it will surely restore your faith in cinéma vérité." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/05/movies/05ruin.html
“The Ruins” could have been the most politically provocative horror film since “Bug” was released last year. It settles for gore and pain instead." profanity and violence." these happy wanderers prove as stupid as they are arrogant disregarding the bad-omen appearance of a couple of spooky Mayan children seemingly on loan from “Apocalypto” and rappelling down into the gloomy depths of a temple without a plan or a clue. Back in the day Richard Pryor might have mined a comedy routine from this movie." and directed by Carter Smith (not  related to the author) the film follows four attractive young Americans (Jonathan Tucker Jena Malone Shawn Ashmore and Laura Ramsey) as they join a handsome German Mathias (Joe Anderson) on a trip to jungle ruins in Mexico to meet up with Mathias’s brother and his archaeologist girlfriend." “The Ruins” is the latest in a long line of horror films about upper-middle-class travelers being terrorized in unfamiliar environments. It is also unfortunately a movie that is nowhere near as original as its monster a strain of malevolent seemingly intelligent jungle vine with a taste for human flesh." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04tuya.html
if given a choice would want to grow up on the cold arid steppe of Inner Mongolia the setting of Wang Quan An’s absorbing film “Tuya’s Marriage”? The climate is so inhospitable that life is a grinding struggle for subsistence. Water is scarce and must be lugged by hand from distant wells. Yet the movie finds an austere beauty in this landscape of scrub and grassland ringed by forbidding slate-blue mountains. The camera frequently draws back to take in the spectacle of people dwarfed by nature in a harsher Asian answer to the North  American plains." Bater (played as are the other male characters by a nonactor of the same name) was permanently disabled in a well-digging accident and is entirely dependent on Tuya who fetches water and tends the flock. The family’s future is imperiled when she dislocates her back while tugging out a man pinned beneath an overturned truck." including Tuya (Yu Nan) an attractive robust woman who lives with her husband and their two young children dwell in crude huts made with wood and rugs. Sheep herding is the region’s primary occupation and source of food although there are signs of change. And alcohol is almost as necessary a staple as water; consumed prodigiously it provides insulation from the cold and relief from pain." when her young son fights with another boy who sneers at him for having two fathers. Tuya after breaking up the fight retreats from the celebration to reflect. The film has too much integrity to equate marriage with happily ever after." Bater (Bater) Baolier (Baolier) Senge (Senge) and Zhaya (Zhaya)." the nouveau riche Mongolian is portrayed as the same kind of conspicuously consuming vulgarian as the typical American oil tycoon. Fortified by his money he insists on having things his way and having them now rather than later. Long before Tuya is ready he forces his attentions on her in a roadside inn that despite its large-screen television and spacious accommodations is even more desolate than the steppe on which it looms like a modern monstrosity." a shy high-strung friend and neighbor whose shrewish wife ran away from home taking his truck screws up the courage to propose; he will divorce his wife when he finds her he promises. But a more likely candidate is Baolier a divorced childhood schoolmate of Tuya who is newly wealthy having struck oil." Mr. Wang and his screenwriting collaborator Lu Wei (“Farewell My Concubine”) portray a world that apart from its hardship is thoroughly recognizable in its human complexity. Its characters are motivated by the same needs for companionship and material well-being and the same demons — greed lust jealousy and despair — that drive everybody." and Tuya agrees. But within a short time Bater feeling abandoned gets drunk and slashes his wrists." so to speak she is besieged by suitors from near and far when word spreads of her decision. The film observes the fascinating rites of courtship and the dealmaking by this strong unsentimental woman who knows what she wants and drives a hard bargain." with English subtitles) by Mr. Wang and Lu Wei; director of photography Lutz Reitemeier; production designer Wei Tao; produced by Yan Ju Gang; released by Music Box Films. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04nana.html
“Nana” is an opposites-attract story that plays out with disarming sincerity. As the optimism of Nana K’s pearly-pastel wardrobe battles Nana O’s fishnets-and-eyeliner gloom we witness their growing friendship without the barrier of satire. In their pop-fantasy world self-awareness is still a long way off." Aoi Miyazaki (Nana Komatsu) Ryuhei Matsuda (Ren) Hiroki Narimiya (Nobu) Kenichi Matsuyama (Shin) Tomoki Maruyama (Yasu) and Tetsuji Tamayama (Takumi)." “Nana” tells of the unlikely friendship between two girls who are alike in name only. When they meet on a train to Tokyo the provincial Nana Komatsu (Aoi Miyazaki) — attired in pink-and-white innocence — is dazzled by the sultry Nana Osaki (Mika Nakashima) a struggling rock singer in brooding black leather. By accident they become roommates; by design they help each other navigate troubled romances and conflicting dreams." ” a delightful pop fairy tale that speaks to young women in the language of sisterhood and self-direction." with English subtitles) by Mr. Otani and Taeko Asano based on the manga by Ai Yazawa; director of photography Kazuhiro Suzuki; edited by Shuichi Kakesu; music by Tadashi Ueda; production designer Norihiro Isoda; produced by Toshiaki Nakazawa and Osamu Kubota; released by Viz Pictures. At the Imaginasian Theater 239 East 59th Street between Second  and Third Avenues. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes. This film is not rated." a bathtub filled with rose petals in a near-derelict warehouse — “Nana” raises issues of pride and ambition without sacrificing its charm. Here big things happen at small train stations and the right song is worth a thousand words." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04jell.html
a newlywed couple (Gera Sandler and Noa Knoller) find their honeymoon ruined by external accidents and internal tensions. They are trapped in a hotel that may be a metaphor for the long marital confinement to come. And a  Filipino immigrant named Joy (Ma-nenita De Latorre) pines for her young son back home and tries vainly to communicate with the grumpy old woman (Zharira Charifai) in her care." bittersweet path and their intersections suggest important themes and subtle motifs. This is a movie about the gulf between parents and children between lovers between friends and even between adults and the children they wish they could still be." but not exactly rare either — in which the accidental connections between lonely city dwellers are given a magical glow of serendipity. Like Miranda July’s “Me and You and Everyone We Know” and Jill Sprecher’s “Thirteen  Conversations About One Thing” — Los Angeles and New York variations on this conceit — “Jellyfish ” which takes place mainly in Tel Aviv seeks out mystical patterns in the drab fabric of modern existence. Its characters are for the most part lost glum and confused but their crisscrossing stories nonetheless seem charmed." and the tiny pleasures and kindnesses that can compensate for the usual tedium and indifference of the world.  It is not about politics or war or national identity which for a movie from Israel is a surprise and also  something of a relief. Not that Mr. Keret and Ms. Geffen seem at all disengaged from the world and its troubles. They are rather concerned with a stranger but also  more intimately familiar set of problems." N.Y." directed by Etgar Keret and Shira Geffen from a screenplay by Ms. Geffen (who is married to Mr. Keret) is altogether charming. It mostly avoids the self-conscious cuteness that is the inevitable side effect of whimsical surrealism and it explores difficult feelings without descending into easy sentimentality. The dominant emotion experienced by the movie’s characters seems to be disappointment — the vague drifting sense of expectations slowly deflating under the pressure of everyday life — but the film’s spirit is refreshingly playful and sweet." with English subtitles) by Ms. Geffen; director of photography Antoine Héberlé; edited by Sasha Franklin and François Gédigier; music by Christopher Bowen; production designer Avi Fahima; produced by Amir Harel and Ayelet Kait for Lama Films and Yaël Fogiel and Laetitia Gonzalez for Les Films du Poisson; released by Zeitgeist Films. Running time: 1 hour 18 minutes. This film is not rated." red-haired creature with a flotation ring around her waist who shows up on the beach where Batya (Sarah Adler) is moping one day. Moping is Batya’s vocation though she certainly has reason to be blue. In the course of the movie’s 78 minutes she is dumped by her boyfriend fired from her job and neglected by her mother a celebrity philanthropist whose image pops up on billboards and in television commercials. The jellyfish child while not quite a figment of Batya’s imagination seems nonetheless to have been conjured out of her half-buried memories of childhood when she might have been a little happier." Nikol Leidman (little girl) Gera Sandler (Michael) Noa Knoller (Keren) Ma-nenita De Latorre (Joy) and Zharira Charifai (Malka)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04ball.html
tracing invisible lines between Simon Suzanne Song an intrusive neighbor and a piano tuner who is working on the family’s old upright. Out of this chaos — Simon playing Suzanne yelling the piano tuner tuning and Song simply moving among them — Mr. Hou creates the world." in some ways it did. The film the latest wonderment from the Taiwanese master Hou Hsiao-hsien takes as one of its inspirations Albert Lamorisse’s 1956 classic “The Red Balloon ” about a young boy and the talismanic sphere that follows him through the gray streets of Paris like a dog a lover a ghost — as much a reminder of the precariousness of life as an emblem of innocence." as will the film which centers on a handful of characters joined together in love and no small amount of confusion much of it churned up by Suzanne. One of the most vibrantly alive and true characters in Ms. Binoche’s career a résumé inundated with melodramatic tears Suzanne invades the film like a hurricane a riot of colors textures patterns and words. She’s terminally distracted and buzzing with fury (at her estranged lover at her neighbor) one of those bruised souls for whom every slight contains the threat of a larger drama. A professional puppeteer she seems most at peace only when she’s giving grave gravelly voice to one of her creations." when Simon is tethered to another elusive wanderer Song (Song Fang) a Chinese national hired to be his sitter." with English subtitles) by Mr. Hou and François Margolin inspired by the film “The Red Balloon” by Albert Lamorisse; director of photography Mark Lee Ping Bing; edited by Liao Ching Sung and Jean-Christophe Hym; produced by Mr. Margolin and Kristina Larsen; released by IFC First Take. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes. This film is not rated." including Maurice Denis who took their inspiration from Gauguin and called themselves the Nabis.  The Nabis created vividly colored abstracted images of everyday life that I think Mr. Hou must find appealing." Simon (Simon Iteanu) a moppet with sandy hair and serious eyes who lives with his mother Suzanne (Juliette Binoche) in a tiny bourgeois-bohemian Parisian flat bursting with books and bric-a-brac. When the story opens Simon is trying to coax the balloon into his grasp his body straining upward as he clambers on the railing of a Métro stop at the Place de la Bastille the site of the uprising that helped ignite the Revolution of 1789. Despite Simon’s pleading the balloon floats away and sails past the quarter’s totemic July Column a pillar that commemorates the Revolution of 1830 and is crowned with a golden winged male figure called the Spirit of Liberty." moving the camera around as gracefully as if it were a brush (or a balloon)." yet there’s a lightness of touch here that keeps the worst at bay. Mr. Hou’s films can be crushingly sad; as with Bresson and Ozu his restraint only deepens the emotional power of his work. But whether because of that red balloon — which alternately invokes the spirit of liberty and its elusiveness — or because he was practicing his art in one of the world’s most beautiful cities Mr. Hou has made a film that is to borrow a line from one of his characters “a bit happy and a bit sad.” These words are spoken by a student who with Simon and a cluster of others is in the Musée d’Orsay with a teacher discussing Félix Vallotton’s 1899 painting of a child chasing a red ball “Le Ballon.”" elliptical (earlier titles include his 1998 masterpiece “Flowers of Shanghai”) he is extraordinarily rigorous. In “Flight of the Red Balloon” he makes particularly expressive use of glass as when Simon stares out a window and his gaze is met by his own reflection a doubling that echoes the scene before when the red balloon pauses next to its painted twinned image floating on a mural." which itself has a diaphanous hypnotically ethereal quality. Part of this is due to Mr. Hou’s approach to narrative which replaces the rigid linearity of the three-act model with complex impressionistic forms; isolated gestures; fugitive moments;  saturated moods; and visual harmony." Song turns out to be making a video about red balloons which suggests that Mr. Lamorisse’s 1956 movie is beloved not only by Western children. (At one point you see snippets of her video — Simon puts in a guest appearance — which makes it seem as if Song had been scouting locations for the very film you’re watching.) Like the puppet show Suzanne performs about a character who tries to boil the ocean to retrieve his beloved the video speaks to something about the interior life of the character giving shape to feeling." Denis wrote: “Remember that a painting — before being a war horse a nude woman or some anecdote or other — is essentially a flat surface covered with colors arranged in a certain order.” This seems worth mentioning because while it’s easy enough to speak of Mr. Hou’s themes — the dissolution of the family among others — this film is also a flat surface of a different type covered with colors arranged in a certain order. (Plus light!)" the other by Suzanne — involving the family’s other child Louise (Louise Margolin) a teenager who lives in Brussels where she cares for her maternal grandfather a puppeteer like Suzanne. Seen only in flashback and in images from childhood Louise is the resident ghost a reminder of the time when the family was together." Simon Iteanu (Simon) Song Fang (Song) Hippolyte Girardot (Marc) and Louise Margolin (Louise)." Suzanne and Song as it does to many of Mr. Hou’s characters. Much like the red balloon which bops into periodic view and hovers outside the apartment window like a prowler (or an angel) mother and child appear especially adrift. They’re both in the world and yet somehow apart as if lost in a mutual dream." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04shin.html
with its deflated balloon lips suggests a double exposure of Dorian Gray and his infamous portrait at once defiantly youthful and creepily gaunt. The simian Mr. Richards whose upper arm flesh has shriveled resembles an old madam chewing over her secrets. As he plays his lips dangling a cigarette he leans back into his snarling guitar and a joyful grin spreads across his face. He could be the world’s happiest young older man: Peter Pan as a wizened Gypsy fortuneteller." ” there is ample evidence that rock ’n’ roll may hold the secret of eternal vitality if not eternal beauty." including “Jumpin’ Jack Flash ”  “Shattered ”  “Some Girls ”  “Tumbling Dice ”  “Sympathy for the Devil ”  “Start Me Up” and “(I Can’t Get No) Satisfaction.”  The only misfire is the quaint quasi chamber-pop ballad “As Tears Go By ” a  hit for Marianne Faithfull in 1964 which sounds incongruous in Mr. Jagger’s parched delivery. Otherwise the full-tilt rock concert roars along like a steam engine. A horn section a keyboardist (Chuck Leavell) a bass guitarist (Darryl Jones) and three backup singers augment the band." with a finely trained eye observes the musicians’ interactions  with one another and with the audience. The visual rhythms and unobtrusive editing reflect the contradictory status of the Stones as a majestic rock institution and a gang of down-and-dirty bad boys thumbing their noses at propriety while scooping up all the girls." conjoined to the Stones’ music it becomes a phenomenal high-wire exhibition of agility stamina and cheek. He was 63 when the concert was filmed over two nights at the Beacon Theater in New York in the fall of 2006. From certain angles when the blazing lights hit his face he suggests an agitated zombie with a full head of hair. But if you squint until your vision blurs he is the same tireless taunting cock of the walk that he has always been." self-created rock ’n’ roll machine. The sheer pleasure of making music that keens and growls like a pack of ravenous alley cats is obviously what keeps them going. Why should they ever stop? At the heart of the gizmo Mr. Jagger whirls leaps struts wiggles his tiny hips and sashays around like an androgynous tart prowling a street corner at 3  a.m." Robert Richardson; edited by David Tedeschi; music by the Rolling Stones; produced by Victoria Pearman Michael Cohl Zane Weiner and Steve Bing; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 2 minutes." Keith Richards and Ronnie Wood the quartet’s three skinny members certainly look their ages. But there is nothing stodgy about them. The strenuous rock ’n’ roll life has left them sinewy and lean like longtime marathon runners. (The staid above-it-all drummer Charlie Watts is the exception.)" Mr. Jagger and company are mischievous bohemian whippersnappers churning up variations on their elders’ musical bedrock. It is  obviously a thrilling game to play into your 60s and beyond if you’ve still got the juice. And the Stones have  the juice. But it is ultimately just a game." and smoking." the cameras are continually on the move. As the movie artfully shifts its gaze it helps you see much more than you could if you actually attended the concert. The audience is largely ignored." going back to 1964 “Shine a Light” makes no attempt to explain the Stones or to tell their story. All it wants to do is to give you the best seat in the house and the best sound you could possibly hope for." which used 18 cameras many operated by eminent cinematographers is an unabashedly reverent tribute to the Stones made in the same spirit as “The Last Waltz ” Mr. Scorsese’s elegiac 1978 movie of the Band’s farewell concert and his more recent Bob Dylan biography “No Direction Home.” That said it is far less ambitious and less overtly romantic." Jack White who trades vocals with Mr. Jagger on “Loving Cup”;  Christina Aguilera who shares the vocals on “Live With Me” and bestows demure pecks on the cheek to the musicians as she leaves the stage; and the great blues guitarist and singer Buddy Guy performing an old Muddy Waters song “Champagne and Reefer.” (There is also the Clinton family in the audience on hand to celebrate Bill Clinton’s 60th birthday.)" whom I saw in the Beacon Theater shortly before his death in 1983 at 70 Mr. Guy 70 when “Shine a Light” was filmed is a mighty blues presence one who puts the Stones in historical perspective. Muddy Waters was an ominous force of raw blues aggression. Mr. Guy though equally imposing is a more benign patriarchal figure." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04sex.html
Daryn Okada; edited by Trudy Ship; production designer John Larena; produced by Cary Brokaw Elizabeth Zox Friedman and Greg Little; released by Anchor Bay Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 56 minutes." notably the influential 1989 “Heathers” — Diablo Cody who wrote “Juno ” should send him royalty checks — but “Sex and Death 101” is not one of them. His second venture doing double duty as writer and director (“Happy Campers ” 2001 was the first) “Sex and Death” is an unfortunate comedy about sex and love and all those things that can prevent a man from getting from one to the other including (ostensibly) hot  lesbian sex (notionally) hot nonlesbian sex (generically) hot girls licking spoons and hot (teenage) girls in school uniforms. And so it goes until this prince uncharming realizes he wants something you know more meaningful." “Sex and Death” is a hard-boiled fantasy with a squishy center. The man in question is a single guy with the kind of name usually  found next to a couple of X’s Roderick Blank (Simon Baker) a looker whose bland existence derails when he receives a list naming all 101 women he will bed before he dies. The list puzzles him as does the revelation of three guys in gray suits Alpha (Robert Wisdom) Beta (Tanc Sade) and Fred (Patton Oswalt) who hang out in a white room weighing the fate of mortals and have some connection with the roll call. As these three rehearse the all-seeing all-knowing routine Roderick takes the opportunity to dump his castrating fiancée and liberate his inner player." yes Winona Ryder who memorably starred in “Heathers ” shows up periodically as Death Nell a mysterious vamp with a Black Widow complex and some nasty black heels. I’m not exactly sure what she’s doing in this film and I don’t believe that Mr. Waters or Ms. Ryder know either." partly because he’s been seriously miscast (he radiates too much decency and intelligence for the role) though more because Mr. Waters never establishes a coherent tone for either the character or his situation. As Roderick makes his way down his list he veers unpersuasively from glib to crude mawkish and desperate with a little limp screwball and frantic mugging tossed in. The film generally remains unfunny but in different registers. What Mr. Waters appears to have been after is the kind of crude romp that brings to mind the hustling likes of Dudley Moore whose moves could have been synched to “The Benny Hill Show” and probably were." Winona Ryder (Death Nell) Leslie Bibb (Dr. Miranda Storm) Julie Bowen (Fiona Wormwood) Mindy Cohn (Trixie) Robert Wisdom (Alpha) Tanc Sade (Beta) and Patton Oswalt (Fred)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04lili.html
the newly sexualized teenage girl. Being French these teenage girls exhibit some notably different characteristics from their Hollywood counterparts; among other things they don’t text snap their gum or deliver snappy dialogue like some peewee-league Rosalind Russell. But like most movie teenagers they also weigh in closer to carefully fabricated adult conceits than to fleshed-out real girls." the sloppy fat loner (more gently rounded than truly big) who pals around with Marie (Pauline Acquart) a reedy child-woman who in turn only has big hungry eyes for Floriane (Adèle Haenel) a ripe beauty whose suggestive smile portends trouble. The scope of that trouble slowly emerges as the girls circle one another at the local pool — they’re all involved in synchronized swimming hence the title — at parties and most provocatively in one another’s bedrooms. Desire the writer and director Céline Sciamma suggests embracing her film’s controlling metaphor rather too enthusiastically has a way of disrupting the most carefully choreographed life." Louise Blachère (Anne) Adèle Haenel (Floriane) and Warren Jacquin (François)." probably as much for its national provenance as its accomplishments. Ms. Sciamma who makes her feature debut here has a fine sense of color and form and works well with her young cast. She generally puts the camera where it makes sense and avoids any visual fuss a few underwater shots notwithstanding; and her editing advances rather than impedes the story. The girls are sympathetic though Ms. Blachère pushes it. Even so what is most interesting about “Water Lilies” is that Ms. Sciamma appears not to have recognized that she has the makings of a real star in Ms. Haenel whose shaded performance suggests a more interesting film than this one." she has neither Ms. Breillat’s searching intelligence nor her daring. “Water Lilies” is a nice watchable attractive minor work. What it lacks is a sense of purpose a commitment not just to its characters but also to its own reason for being. Girls grow up. They fumble in and out of bed sometimes with one another. They cry. They laugh. They’re unspeakable. And then they’re adults." with English subtitles) and directed by Céline Sciamma; director of photography Crystel Fournier; edited by Julien Lacheray; music by Para One; production designer Gwendal Bescond; produced by Bénédicte Couvreur and Jérôme Dopffer; released by Koch Lorber Films. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04blue.html
who dutifully act out a country-and-western song about drinkin’ and cheatin’. Then it’s on to Nevada where Ms. Portman jolts the movie (though not Ms. Jones) out of its woozy stupor showing up as a bottle-blond gambler her bangles and bluster deflecting attention from the depths of her loneliness and uncertainty." Jude Law (Jeremy) David Strathairn (Arnie) Rachel Weisz (Sue Lynne) Natalie Portman (Leslie) and Chan Marshall (Katya)." and geographical coordinates are above all indices of atmosphere and mood. Whether the rain-spattered alleys and narrow apartment house corridors of Hong Kong in the 1960s — the setting for “In the Mood for Love” and parts of “2046” — are faithful historical re-creations is beyond irrelevant. Or at least it has been to Mr. Wong’s fervent European and North American admirers who have elevated his couture fetish his melancholy sensuality and his flair for arresting visual compositions into elements of a major cinematic style." as the case may be. Forgive the riot of sweet-shop metaphors but “My Blueberry Nights ” which starts with a time-lapse money shot of vanilla ice cream deliquescing into the glossy fruit filling of a collapsed slice of pie insists on its own status as a confection. Its governing metaphor may be that gooey blueberry dessert but structurally it is a three-layer génoise frosted with moody voice-overs torchy songs and silky camera tricks and filmed in caramelized shades of orange and red." which has shed around 20 minutes since opening the Cannes Film Festival in May is to risk missing the point. Not only because in post-Hollywood America as every self-respecting French philosopher knows the simulacrum has eclipsed the thing itself. But also because  Mr. Wong whose previous films have occasionally strayed as far from his beloved Hong Kong as Cambodia and South America has never been especially concerned with verisimilitude. You suspect that he would hire a production designer for his summer vacation slide show. Indeed that’s pretty much what he has done in “My Blueberry Nights” (the production designer is William Chang Suk Ping). He’s also brought along a few movie stars (Natalie Portman Rachel Weisz Jude Law) to make the scenery even more picturesque." ” which pass pleasantly enough with swirly mood-saturated colors;  lovely faces; and nice music you may feel a bit logy yourself — filled up sugar-addled but not really satisfied." for reasons perhaps having more to do with Mr. Wong’s desire to explore new landscapes than with anything going on in Lizzie’s life she walks out again keeping in touch with Jeremy through postcards Ms. Jones rather affectlessly reads on the soundtrack. (The post-Cannes editing as far as I can tell has trimmed back on the voice-over and also on some of the slow-motion melting ice cream.)" in particular for the faces of lovelorn men and women lighted  by neon and photographed in shadow. Here he samples the exquisite cheekbones of Jude Law and the slightly haggard handsomeness of David Strathairn but his main interest is in petite full-lipped women in the throes of emotional unfulfillment." Memphis or New York — or who has received postcards from friends in those cities — is likely to find “My Blueberry Nights ” Wong Kar-wai’s first English-language feature wildly unrealistic even though much of it was shot on location in the real-deal U.S.A. The smoky Tennessee juke joint and the cute little Manhattan bakery-cafe look like theme restaurants catering to the tourist trade and even the highways snaking through the mountains and deserts have the inauthentic glow of rental-car advertisements. Mr. Wong and his cinematographer Darius Khondji make America look so pretty that you may have trouble recognizing it." Leslie arriving late in the film provides a little kick of melodramatic unpredictability. But her engagingly direct performance — as a habitual liar curiously enough — only underscores how affected and emotionally inert the rest of the movie has been. Ms. Jones whose diffidence lends her musical performances an air of intrigue and seduction does not so much fail to act as refuse to try. Her face registers degrees of strickenness and bewilderment but she is most persuasive when she falls asleep at the counter of Jeremy’s establishment after gorging on pie." based on a story by Mr. Wong; director of photography Darius Khondji; editing and production design by William Chang Suk Ping; music by Ry Cooder; produced by Mr. Wong Jacky Pang and Yee Wah; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." including violence drinking and smoking." for an unabashed free-floating glamour that can be hard to find in movies these days and that cinephiles sometimes feel guilty about craving. To claim his fashion magazine sensibility for the cause of high art is a way of ascribing nutritive value to eye candy. And why not? We all need to eat and why shouldn’t we eat cake?" a good sport if not a natural actress playing a New Yorker who goes by variations on the name Elizabeth. She starts out as Lizzie in the midst of a bad breakup that leads her every night at closing time into a cute eatery run by Jeremy a soulful expatriate Englishman played by Mr. Law. Of all the pie joints in the world she had to walk into his." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04leat.html
a fast-talking ambitious lady reporter for The Chicago Tribune who admires the sound of her own voice and the sight of her own legs just in case no one else will. They all do of course because the script (by Duncan Brantley and Rick Reilly) requires them to. It also stuffs Ms. Zellweger’s mouth with hard-boiled witticisms that have all the intoxicating fizz of Diet Coke." around 1925 according to “Leatherheads ” professional football was a lot more fun a rough ragged enterprise untrammeled by corporate influence and unconstrained by rules and regulations. And in the slightly more recent old days — the ’30s and ’40s more or less — movies were also more fun. They had zip pep moxie trains hats and double-entendres." but mainly by showcasing its own dullness and timidity. The picture labors so strenuously to approximate some of the old screwball spirit that it winds up in traction. The actors writers and directors who made those old studio whirligigs spin — Clark Gable and Carole Lombard; William Powell and Myrna Loy; Preston Sturges and Frank Capra and all the rest — made it look easy. By contrast “Leatherheads ” the third and by a wide margin the weakest movie directed by George Clooney looks to have been nearly as hard to make as it is to watch." everyone drinks whiskey until the cops raid the speak-easies. The music by Randy Newman gooses the action along in a desperate effort to create an atmosphere of madcap Jazz Age insouciance and the screenplay multiplies subplots in the same doomed cause. Before he was a football hero Carter was a war hero and Lexie aims to use her womanly wiles and her journalistic smarts to debunk his claims of battlefield glory.  This sets up a botched farcical climax that will require several viewings of Sturges’s “Hail the Conquering Hero” to chase from your mind." at least has a clear goal in mind which is more than can be said for “Leatherheads.” Mr. Clooney is known to be high-spirited as well as high-minded and it’s perfectly reasonable that he would follow the earnest moral inquiry of “Good Night and Good Luck” with a lighter looser excursion into the American past. It is also interesting to note that all three of the movies he has directed (“Confessions of a Dangerous Mind” was the first) share a passing concern with the ethical problems of journalism and the conundrums of celebrity culture at various points in 20th-century history." a smooth-talking sharpie on and off the gridiron persuades Princeton’s star player Carter Rutherford (John Krasinski) to join the Duluth team. Carter and his oily manager C. C. Frazier (Jonathan Pryce) agree. A while later Mr. Clooney and Mr. Krasinski punch each other in the face." haphazard and tonally incoherent piece of work. “Leatherheads” lurches hectically between Coen brothers-style pastiche and John Saylesian didacticism while Mr. Clooney works his brow and his jaw and waits in vain for his charm to kick in and save the day. Unless he’s just vamping until the director shows up and gives him some clear instructions." mugging and flexing his eyebrows and lingering needlessly in the frame when he should be taking care of business behind the camera plays Dodge Connolly aging star of a Duluth Minn. football squad on the verge of bankruptcy. The professional game is a marginal low-rent undertaking played in front of sparse crowds in cow fields. The glamour is all at the collegiate level where lantern-jawed scholars in smart uniforms fill vast stadiums with ardent fans." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/04/movies/04isla.html
the casting genius who suggested Jodie Foster as a potential love interest for Gerard Butler would be looking for a new occupation. But miscasting isn’t the only problem with this sweet but ho-hum adaptation of Wendy Orr’s novel a comedy-adventure that never quite finds its tone." Ms. Flackett Paula Mazur and Joseph Kwong based on the novel by Wendy Orr; director of photography Stuart Dryburgh; edited by Stuart Levy; production designer Barry Robison; produced by Ms. Mazur; released by Fox Walden. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." Ms. Foster makes a slapstick meal of rushing to Nim’s aid. Yet this is a story about hiding from the world — whether on a remote island or inside your head — and the film’s sensitive notes are too often jarred by its attempts to score cheap comic points from sea lion flatulence and obese Australian tourists. The message that lifelong connections can be forged through books is a lovely one; too bad it’s obscured by flying lizards." Jack (Mr. Butler). Motherless and near-fatherless (Jack spends his days studying plankton) Nim amuses herself with a stable of performing pets and the literary adventures of an Indiana Jones-style hero named Alex Rover. When Jack is trapped by a storm at sea and Nim  sends an e-mail message to Rover for help she’s unaware that the recipient is his agoraphobic creator Alexandra (Ms. Foster)." Jodie Foster (Alexandra Rover) and Gerard Butler (Jack/Alex Rover)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/31/movies/31roma.html
July 11 2008 in Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street" ” which opened on Friday without advance press screenings was bought by HBO at the Sundance Film Festival in January. Its one-week theatrical run will make it eligible for Academy Award consideration though given that organization’s often pitiful record when it comes to nonfiction film it seems unlikely that a movie this subtly intelligent would make its short list. That’s especially true because the director Marina Zenovich refuses to wag her finger at Mr. Polanski even when presenting the sordid and grimly pathetic details of his crime like the Champagne and partial Quaalude he furnished the 13-year-old girl and her repeated nos." who after pleading guilty in 1977 to having “unlawful sexual intercourse” with a minor flew from Los Angeles to London never again to return to America. Neither is it about Mr. Polanski’s likability his tragic past morals short stature brilliant and bad films the sleaze factor or your personal feelings on whether there’s anything wrong with a 43-year-old man’s having sex with a 13-year-old girl. All these elements come teasingly into view here but really this is a movie about a very different kind of perversion." arguments about the age of consent notwithstanding. In March1977 he was arrested at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel and charged with raping the girl at the home of his friend Jack Nicholson the star of his film “Chinatown.” (Mr. Nicholson was away.) He was released on $2 500 bail and eventually indicted on six felony charges including child molestation and sodomy. In August after agreeing to a plea bargain he pleaded guilty to one felony count of illegal sex with a 13-year-old girl. Her family’s lawyer Lawrence Silver told the judge that his clients were not seeking a prison term for Mr. Polanski only an admission of wrongdoing and rehabilitation. By Feb. 1 1978 Mr. Polanski had fled." a wealth of archival material and generous clips from Mr. Polanski’s films including “Rosemary’s Baby” and “Chinatown” — he had every reason to run. The story of what happened between the initial charges and his flight has been sketchily told before including by his victim Samantha Geimer who in 2003 wrote a commentary for The Los Angeles Times in which she stated that she believed that he and his most recent film at the time “The Pianist ” should be honored on their own merits. She added “Who wouldn’t think about running when facing a 50-year sentence from a judge who was clearly more interested in his own reputation than a fair judgment or even the well-being of the victim?”" who notes that while the director remains wanted in the United States he continues to be desired in Europe. That’s not fully true of course: his autobiographically inflected Holocaust drama “The Pianist” received several Academy Awards including best director amid much love and acclamation. But it does get at the strong curiously divisive reactions he has long inspired reactions that have as much to do with the disturbing power of his best work as his own history as a victim and a survivor. Mr. Polanski survived the Holocaust and the murder of his wife Sharon Tate in 1969 by followers of Charles Manson. It was the American legal system that almost did him in." March 28 in Manhattan and Pasadena Calif." P. G. Morgan and Ms. Zenovich; director of photography Tanja Koop; edited by Mr. Bini; music composed and arranged by Mark De Gli Antoni; Steven Soderbergh and Randy Wooten executive producers; Jeffrey Levy-Hinte and Lila Yacoub producers. At the Coliseum Cinemas 701 West 181st Street Washington Heights and Laemmle’s One Colorado 42 Miller Alley Pasadena. This film is not rated." notably corroborating interviews from Douglas Dalton Mr. Polanski’s lawyer and Roger Gunson the assistant district attorney who led the prosecution. Together these two former opponents pin the blame for Polanski’s flight directly on the presiding judge Laurence J. Rittenband (who stepped down in 1989 and died in 1994). Aided and abetted by an avalanche of fluidly organized visual material the lawyers fill in the appalling details of what was effectively a second crime one largely perpetrated by a celebrity-dazzled judge and the equally gaga news media he courted. This crime left two victims Mr. Polanski who was denied a fair trial and Ms. Geimer who was denied justice. As she wrote “Sometimes I feel like we both got a life sentence.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/29/movies/29supe.html
or even a parody of the genre specified in its title would be misleading since those terms imply at least an attempt at wit. But no real mockery is intended by this harmless mindless grab bag of slightly used gags which lampoons some of the conventions of recent comic-book epics and adds the expected staples of juvenile humor: urine vomit and intestinal gas." it’s a long 85 minutes which may come to think of it be a trenchant bit of satire in its own right. Most superhero movies these days are much too long and way too expensive. “Superhero Movie” manages to feel that way even though it could hardly be shorter or cheaper." of course. Brassieres for example sprinklings of timid ethnic and homophobic humor and more references to Internet phenomena like YouTube MySpace and Craigslist than you’re likely to encounter in a real superhero picture. Oddly though the narrative template is shockingly ancient: it’s the first Spider-Man movie which came out like six years ago. Who even remembers?" ” “X-Men” and “Batman” franchises all mild enough to avoid offending fans or litigious copyright holders. And there are a few moments that might elicit a chuckle including a Tom Cruise impersonation that has already circulated on the Web. The presence of Leslie Nielsen does not in itself bring laughter except insofar as you may be reminded of other funnier movies." a more satisfying exercise than actually seeing the movie. But people will do that too. “Superhero Movie” occupied two screens at the Times Square multiplex where I saw it with a select group of cinephiles at 10:45 on Friday morning and I’m sure the crowds will be large as the weekend progresses. And then it will be forgotten until a few months from now when the next gaggle of earnest troubled costumed crime fighters take over those screens and make me look back in sorrow at this missed opportunity to cut them all down to size." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28shel.html
the movie centers on Zach (Trevor Wright) a short-order cook.  Between shifts Zach pursues a desultory relationship with his girlfriend Tori (Katie Walder) and acts as surrogate father to his  5-year-old nephew Cody (Jackson Wurth). His real passion however is painting expressed in the stenciled graffiti he sprays on neighborhood buildings and in the art-school dreams that his selfish sister (Tina Holmes) is determined to sabotage." a confident writer and eager enabler of all of Zach’s passions.  As the two hit the surf and Shaun’s mattress with equal enthusiasm the movie’s abundance of tanned bodies rolling waves and golden sunsets create an aesthetic of inoffensive hedonism that perfectly matches the subject matter." Joseph White; edited by Michael Hofacre; music by J. Peter Robinson; production designer Denise Hudson; produced by Paul Colichman Stephen P. Jarchow and J. D. Disalvatore; released by here! Networks here! Films and Regent Releasing. At the Tribeca Cinemas 54 Varick Street at Laight Street. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." “Shelter” is finally less about erotic soul-searching than about defining one’s boundaries. And if at times the symbolism is a bit heavy-handed — and the ending is easily foreseen — strong performances and Joseph White’s burnished cinematography do much to  atone. Coming out has rarely looked so pretty." Brad Rowe (Shaun) Tina Holmes (Jeanne) Jackson Wurth (Cody) Ross Thomas (Gabe) and Katie Walder (Tori)." ” a sensitive romantic drama from the writer and director Jonah Markowitz." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28pric.html
as Jean juggles the roles of hotel employee and high-rolling guest. “Priceless” also signals that Irène and Jean are at heart nice people who haven’t become addicted to hustling and its rewards. It blithely and unrealistically pretends that all they really need is each other." the simpering sweetness Ms. Tautou displayed in her career-making hit “Amélie” acquires a bitter tang. She is more interesting as a bad girl affecting naïveté than as an angelic Parisian waif." Alan Cumming and Buster Keaton  — affects no studly airs he makes an amusingly incongruous gigolo. But he has charm to spare." and she tutors him in being a material boy. A fast learner he discovers that sulking and dropping an enigmatic unfinished sentence at the right moment in the right tone can incite jealousy and insecurity and unleash a flood of gifts. Before long he is wearing a 30 000-euro watch and driving a motor scooter." and they never make fools of themselves. When Irène and Jean betray them their pride may be wounded but their hearts are not broken. And the world goes round." with English subtitles) by Mr. Salvadori and Benoît Graffin; director of photography Gilles Henry; edited by Isabelle Devinck; music by Camille Bazbaz; produced by Philippe Martin; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." she steals down to the bar where Jean is napping and mistakes him for a rich playboy. Jean once awakened is instantly smitten and pretends to be what she imagines; they get drunk together and spend a night of bliss in the hotel’s conveniently unoccupied royal suite." but there is nary a conspicuous breast implant in sight. When Irène throws on a little black something and slouches across a room she is a million-euro sylph a hundred times classier than the bling-laden beasts lumbering through Orange County and the Hamptons on American reality television." where she cheerfully bankrupts him on a shopping spree. Just as his life is about to fall apart he is swept up by Madeleine (Marie-Christine Adam) a wealthy older widow who eyes him in the hotel lobby orders him to carry her baggage upstairs and installs him as her lover." Gad Elmaleh (Jean) Marie-Christine Adam (Madeleine) Vernon Dobtcheff (Jacques) Jacques Spiesser (Gilles) and Annelise Hesme (Agnès)." the movie is an amusing ball of fluff that refuses to judge its characters’ amoral high jinks. Winking at the vanity of wealthy voluptuaries and hustlers playing games of tainted love it heaves a sigh and says welcome to the human comedy. Because its shenanigans are so improbable “Priceless” is too frivolous even to be called satire. Nor is it sexy. Most of the time it stays discreetly outside the bedroom." ” “Cribs” and reality shows exalting American gluttony and  savor the more refined amenities  on the coasts of  southern France  in the cynical Gallic comedy “Priceless.”  In luxury hotels from Biarritz to Nice Irène (Audrey Tautou) and Jean (Gad Elmaleh) trade sexual favors for gifts with well-kept sybarites on the far side of 60." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28hats.html
the indomitable Ms. Weddell saw an opportunity to follow her passion. “I love illusion ” she says describing an acting career that has paid her bills for almost three decades. From “Law & Order” to “Sex and the City ” from vampire movies to cheese commercials this remarkable woman has compiled a résumé that defies the industry’s rampant ageism. And while her aristocratic looks and powerhouse personality — and an elegant way with a cigarette holder — have no doubt contributed to her success so too has a willingness to work 14-hour days and fight for roles." “Hats Off” is a documentary tribute to the 93-year-old actress Mimi Weddell one of those people for whom the word  “individual”  seems especially apt." ” says her son Tom who shares his mother’s East Side Manhattan apartment along with his sister Sarah Dillon and other family members. And as the filmmakers Jyll Johnstone and Michael Arlen Davis strive to keep up with their subject’s punishing schedule of dance lessons gym workouts auditions and even a sightseeing trip to Florence their movie seldom flags. For Ms. Weddell standing still may be life’s only remaining terror." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28four.html
the movie has something to say about hypocrisy and the dangers of snap judgments. As for the male nudity well you won’t hear any complaints from me." “A Four Letter Word” is a surprisingly endearing romantic comedy that explores gay relationships with low-budget verve." Jon Fordham; edited by Christina Kelly; music by Scott Starrett; production designer Urvashi Satghare; produced by Mr. Andreas and Markus Goetze; released by Embrem Entertainment. At the Clearview Chelsea Cinemas 260 West 23rd Street. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. This film is not rated." Charlie David (Stephen) Cory Grant (Zeke) Virginia Bryan (Marilyn) Steven Goldsmith (Peter) and J. R. Rolley (Derek)." “A Four Letter Word” coasts on a good-natured raunchiness — a nude yoga class is particularly diverting — that’s explicit but never sleazy. Spinning off characters from his gloriously titled “Slutty Summer ” Mr. Andreas integrates subplots involving a gay biracial couple and a bicurious bride-to-be (an excellent Virginia Bryan)." a promiscuous “gay cliché” who works in a Chelsea sex shop along with his friend Zeke (Cory Grant). While Luke chases sexual oblivion Zeke engages in social activism and a running commentary on Luke’s moral shortcomings. But when Luke falls for a less flamboyant lover named Stephen (Charlie David clearly cast primarily for looks) and decides to cut back on the sparkles he soon discovers that his new boyfriend is even more old-fashioned than he thought." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28flaw.html
directed by Michael Radford (“Il Postino”) from a screenplay by Edward A. Anderson works at cross-purposes. It wants to transport us  to the innocent carefree days of traditional British caper movies in the Age of Bond when the game was the thing. But since the product being marketed is diamonds mined in South Africa it also feels obliged to tip its hat to the Age of “Blood Diamond”  and affect a political consciousness.  We hear of a riot by striking miners in which many were killed. But that information has no resonance. It is just another signal that the London company is rotten to the core." Michael Caine (Hobbs) Lambert Wilson (Finch) Nathaniel Parker (Ollie) Shaughan Seymour (Eaton) and Nicholas Jones (Jameson)." Mr. Hobbs (Michael Caine in a role he has played before) is the company’s sneaky janitor. Abjectly shuffling through the corridors with his pail and mop Hobbs who lost his wife to cancer 15 years earlier is such a harmless-looking creature that he is able to steal virtually unnoticed into executive suites and rifle through personnel files. But as we eventually learn he has a serious personal ax to grind. Hobbs is the one who discovers that Laura’s days at the company are numbered and he uses the information to enlist her in a robbery scheme." and the crime’s execution is reasonably suspenseful." and the thieves come under the scrutiny  of a suave insurance investigator Finch (Lambert Wilson) who shows a slight romantic interest in Laura whose relationship with Hobbs ruptures. None of it makes much sense. In an extra unnecessary layer “Flawless” is told as a flashback in which the aged Laura brings her story to a magazine editor." sanded and polished into a 168-carat monster stone with 58 facets. The scene reminds us that diamond dealing begins with dirty hands scrounging in the muck." Richard Greatrex; edited by Peter Boyle; music by Stephen Warbeck; production designer Sophie Becher; produced by Mark Williams and Michael Pierce; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." for which they both work. In the story set in 1960 before the term glass ceiling was coined Demi Moore plays Laura Quinn a grimly ambitious company executive of 40 whose career has stalled. Early in the movie she learns that the pompous corrupt gargoyles who stole her ideas intend to fire her." Ms. Moore’s Laura is a forerunner of Meredith Johnson the barracuda she played with such fearsome intensity in “Disclosure.” Where Meredith wielded sexual harassment charges as a weapon for career advancement Laura has no tools with which to fight. The world of “Flawless” predates the very  expression sexual harassment. Steely in mind and body this apparently loveless friendless woman has sacrificed everything for success in business." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28fatb.html
running running an activity befitting the hero of the  British  comedy titled “Run Fat Boy Run.” In the film’s prologue he runs away from his pregnant fiancée Libby (Thandie Newton charming in a largely reactive role) minutes before their scheduled wedding. When we catch up with him years later he’s a chubby security guard sprinting after a shoplifter. Soon after Dennis decides to enter the same marathon as Libby’s rich American boyfriend Whit to show Libby and his now elementary-school-age son Jake that he can make plans and see them through. “You can’t even finish a sentence ” Libby says." FAT BOY RUN" ”  an inspirational fantasy with guy’s-guy banter and gross-out humor (including a blister-popping scene that seems to be  this film’s answer to the hair gel bit in “Mary”). Yet it’s effective and affecting; much of its impact comes from its images of Dennis running and its conviction that there’s a difference between running toward something and running away." Fat Boy Run” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned).  Profanity nudity and gross-out slapstick." Fat Boy Run” is the kind of movie that’s apt to be dismissed a goofy lark.  It is that. But it’s also a rare comedy that believes  in its own message and that could inspire the depressed and the demoralized to grit their teeth and keep running." Gordon a degenerate gambler with a penchant for slightly cryptic declarations. (In the aftermath of the blister scene Gordon states “That was the second most disgusting thing I’ve ever had in my eye.”)" ” “Hot Fuzz” and “Fat Boy ” which is derived from a  script by Michael Ian Black that was originally set in America — never shies away from Dennis’s pathetic essence. Even when training for a marathon he can’t seem to stop smoking and eating junk food. But Mr. Pegg also gives us enough of a sense of Dennis’s capacity for self-transformation that his mission seems both plausible and inspiring." based on a story by Mr. Black; director of photography Richard Greatrex; edited by Michael Parker; music by Alex Wurman; production designer Sophie Becher; produced by Robert Jones and Sarah Curtis; released by Picturehouse. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." lowbrow slapstick  and melancholy song montages suggests that its  director the former “Friends” star David Schwimmer has seen “The Graduate” more than once. The movie is formulaic and there are times when Mr. Schwimmer and his writers overdo things (particularly in the finale which finds Whit previously a human-scaled jerk indulging in cartoon villainy)." Thandie Newton (Libby) Hank Azaria (Whit) Dylan Moran (Gordon) Harish Patel (Mr. Goshdashtidar) India de Beaufort (Maya Goshdashtidar) and Matthew Fenton (Jake)." like the scene in which Dennis and Whit  walk with Jake each would-be daddy tugging at one of the boy’s hands wishbone style and an earlier scene in which Whit warns Dennis that every marathoner hits a wall — an admonition that pays off in the marathon sequence when Dennis encounters a  chillingly effective visualization of that wall." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28chap.html
J. P. Schaefer switches between a docudrama portrait of Mr. Chapman (overplayed by Jared Leto as if he were Truman Capote’s  mouth-breathing cousin) silly flights of fancy and “Taxi Driver”-inspired subjective filmmaking meant to put us inside Mr. Chapman’s crumbling mind." Lindsay Lohan (Jude) and Judah Friedlander (Paul)." Tom Richmond; edited by Andrew Hafitz and Jim Makiej; music by Anthony Marinelli; production designer Kalina Ivanov; produced by Robert Salerno Naomi Despres and Alexandra Milchan; released by Peace Arch Entertainment. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes." funny work as a paparazzo most of the  performances are vague and dull including Lindsay Lohan’s supporting turn as a Beatles fan who befriends Mr. Chapman. The character’s name is Jude. Care to guess how Chapman greets her?" including Beatles songs and J. D. Salinger’s novel “The Catcher in the Rye”  (referred to through quotations borrowed situations impressionistic cutaways to rye fields and in the film’s title which refers to a nonexistent final chapter of Mr. Salinger’s book)." John Lennon’s assassin would most likely be accused of tastelessness but in the case of “Chapter 27” — a drama based on Jack Jones’s book “Let Me Take You Down” — the charges are justified." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28brot.html
neither of which thankfully materializes. Instead even when the narrative veers toward violence or grief Mr. Luchetti’s manner is breezy and raffish. He seems to be aiming for the in-the-moment open-ended aesthetic — the breathlessness — that characterized the youthful Italian films of the late ’60s and early ’70s movies like Marco Bellocchio’s  “Fists in the Pocket” and “China Is Near.”" ” directed by Daniele Luchetti from a script he wrote with Sandro Petraglia and Stefano Rulli is a lively minor addendum to the grand tradition of Italian fraternal cinema. A weightier longer specimen can be found in “The Best of Youth” (2003) an epic mini-series also written by Mr. Petraglia and Mr. Rulli. In that story brotherly love and strife provided the scaffolding for a long intricate chronicle of Italy’s transformation over four decades from the 1960s until just about now. The scope of “My Brother Is an Only Child” is narrower and its focus more psychological than sociological but like “The Best of Youth” it takes its energy from the ferment of the 1960s and follows two brothers driven to the left and the right by the centrifugal force of the times." most memorably a leftist student orchestra playing a “corrected ” Marxist version of “Ode to Joy” and being disrupted by a fascist gang defending Beethoven by any means necessary. That scene violent ardent and absurd presents a tableau of what is best in “My Brother Is an Only Child”: Accio and Manrico at once allies and antagonists bound and separated by love politics and art." ideological warfare political contention you name it — is often expressed through sibling rivalry. If the nation can be imagined as an unruly dysfunctional family then the most fitting symbol of its internal crises must surely be bickering brothers Romulus scrapping with Remus." the older son of a working-class family in a small city outside Rome follows his father into factory work and becomes a Communist almost as an afterthought. Militancy is a good way to attract girls including Francesca (Diane Fleri) a particularly fetching daughter of the bourgeoisie and the romance of left-wing radicalism fits in with Manrico’s Byronic charm and self-confidence." with English subtitles) by Sandro Petraglia Stefano Rulli and Mr. Luchetti based on the novel “Il Fasciocomunista” by Antonio Pennacchi; director of photography Claudio Collepiccolo; edited by Mirco Garrone; music by Franco Piersanti; production designer Francesco Frigeri; produced by Riccardo Tozzi Giovanni Stabilini and Marco Chimenz; released by ThinkFilm. At the Lincoln Plaza Broadway at 62nd Street. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes. This film is not rated." nostalgia for those crazy old days has its attractions even — or perhaps especially — if you weren’t there the first time around. And even though much of “My Brother Is an Only Child” feels a little familiar the characters are interesting and vivid enough to engage your sympathy. Mr. Germano’s performance is especially agile and engaging; he persuades you that Accio is terrifyingly volatile just before showing him to be steadfast and sensitive and then does the trick in reverse." but we knew that already. Tell us something new or at least persuade us that 40 years later we should care." Accio (Elio Germano) is  more of an intellectual. (There is also a sister in the middle but as in most movies of this kind she dwells at the margins of the story.) Accio is a better student than Manrico and also a natural skeptic. After he is expelled from a seminary he heads by instinct and by accident toward fascism." Riccardo Scamarcio (Manrico) Diane Fleri (Francesca) Alba Rohrwacher (Violetta) Angela Finocchiaro (Mother) and Massimo Popolizio (Father)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28back.html
the movie observes Ben (Rob Bogue) an unemployed romantic and Colton (Josh Alexander who also wrote the screenplay) a struggling actor on a mission to meet Donald Sutherland. As Ben quotes Psychology Today and whines about his girlfriend’s demands for rough sex Colton concentrates on the pertinent elements of their journey: securing a stripper organizing a motel-room party and delivering the package of cocaine hidden in the glove compartment. Wackiness ensues." and only in American movies is masculine immaturity celebrated with such regularity. This trend continues with “Backseat ” a road movie whose flailing 30-something protagonists while not exactly 40-year-old virgins can have avoided that fate only by the tender mercies of women with abysmally low expectations." this odd-couple misadventure is more concerned with quirks than with characters. (One typical weirdo communicates only by texting.) Yet the acting is competent the direction (by Bruce Van Dusen) tight and the dialogue as natural as you would expect from men stalled in perpetual adolescence. Faint praise perhaps but then I wasn’t terribly impressed with “Sideways” either." Josh Alexander (Colton) Aubrey Dollar (Shelle) Will Janowitz (Frankie) Mark Rosenthal (Henry) and Danny Mastrogiorgio (Andres)." Ari J. Issler; edited by Andy Keir and Gavin Cutler; music by B C Smith; production designer Amanda Ford; produced by Mr. Alexander and Terry Leonard; released by Truly Indie. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28twen.html
based on the book “Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions” by Ben Mezrich; director of photography Russell Carpenter; edited by Elliot Graham; music by David Sardy; production designer Missy Stewart; produced by Dana Brunetti Kevin Spacey and Michael De Luca; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 3 minutes." ethnically sexually balanced gang of other greedy bright things (the most appealing being Aaron Yoo wasted as the kooky sexless Asian guy) run by an equally avaricious math professor Micky  Rosa (Kevin Spacey on autopilot). Using a system of mnemonic devices goofy hand signals and  a  talent for numbers the team has devised a way to beat the bank. (In Las Vegas Laurence Fishburne and his knuckles will have something to say about that.) Because Ben doesn’t want to use his poor widowed mother’s savings to go to Harvard he decides to ditch his qualms if not his sense (because he really has none) and signs on." where they count the cards take the money and run. Amid the din and glare of various casinos the director Robert Luketic whose credits include “Legally Blonde ” engages in other dodgy business: he cribs from Wong Kar-wai’s “Chungking Express” period (Ben sits motionless as the world races by); borrows from  the David Fincher  of  “Fight Club” (camera tricks for kicks); lifts from Martin Scorsese’s “Casino” (throw the money in the air  like  you just don’t care); and pays homage to universal whoredom by restaging the “Pretty Woman” shopping montage. He also tosses in some gleaming rides a couple of PG-13 pole dancers and a Rolling Stones remix that both Dad and the kids can enjoy." Kate Bosworth (Jill Taylor) Laurence Fishburne (Cole Williams) Kevin Spacey (Micky  Rosa) Aaron Yoo (Choi) Liza Lapira (Kianna) and Jacob Pitts (Fisher)." and the movie does exactly the same. He particularly likes it when his skinny school crush Jill clambers aboard and offers him a lap job for which I hope the young actress Kate Bosworth was well compensated. Like everything else in “21 ” Jill can be bought for the right price as of course can Ben and by extension us. The filmmakers try to soften this idea mostly by furnishing Ben with a sob story. They turn his desire to attend Harvard into something tantamount to an inalienable right one that’s impervious to ethical standards or personal morals which  means that “21” is either a very cynical or a very smart take on the power elite." ” a feature-length bore about some smarty-pants who take Vegas for a ride. Loosely based on the nonfiction book “Bringing Down the House” by Ben Mezrich and adapted for the screen by Peter Steinfeld and Allan Loeb this bankrupt enterprise asks you to care about a whiny M.I.T. moppet Ben Campbell (Jim Sturgess serviceable) who because he can’t afford Harvard Medical School (boo hoo) starts counting cards to rake in some serious cash." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28stop.html
heavy drinking some sexuality and intense combat violence." it becomes clear that especially for Brandon there are no good outcomes. He can live as a fugitive or return to combat. And the dispiriting open-endedness of the story confirmed in its wrenching hectic final scenes mirrors the larger reality of the war itself whose end grows harder to imagine with every passing day." a member of Brandon’s squad whose postcombat anguish is especially acute. But the logic of the story and the motivations of the characters seem increasingly confused as Ms. Peirce and Mr. Richard struggle to control the film’s pace and momentum." the world comes crashing down on the soldiers. Staff Sgt. Brandon King (Ryan Phillippe) and his squad supervising a checkpoint in Tikrit are drawn into a firefight that leaves some of them dead others horribly wounded and the rest badly shaken both by the loss of their friends and by the deaths of Iraqi civilians. After the trauma of that battle Brandon and his best pal Steve Shriver (Channing Tatum) are especially relieved to be done with their tours and they return home to Brazos Tex. looking forward to a normal life of Lone Star hell-raising." Chris Menges; edited by Claire Simpson; music by John Powell; production designer David Wasco; produced by Ms. Peirce Mark Roybal Scott Rudin and Gregory Goodman; released by Paramount Pictures and MTV Films. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." Abbie Cornish (Michele) Channing Tatum (Steve Shriver) Joseph Gordon-Levitt (Tommy Burgess) Ciaran Hinds (Roy King) Timothy Olyphant (Boot Miller) Victor Rasuk (Rico Rodriguez) and Rob Brown (Eyeball Butler)." which she wrote with Mark Richard is not only an earnest issue-driven narrative but also a feverish entertainment a passionate at times overwrought melodrama gaudy with violent actions and emotions. The sober mournful piety that has characterized a lot of the other fictional features about Iraq —  documentaries are another matter —  is almost entirely missing from “Stop-Loss ” which is being distributed by Paramount’s youth-friendly label MTV Films. Not that the movie is unsentimental — far from it — but its messy chaotic welter of feeling has a tang of authenticity. Instead of high-minded indignation or sorrow it runs on earthier fuel: sweat blood beer testosterone loud music and an ideologically indeterminate freewheeling sense of rage." there is a grim accidental timeliness in the release of “Stop-Loss ” which focuses on the ordeal of American soldiers in and out of combat. Not that the movie’s topicality will necessarily draw crowds. For many viewers (and some critics as well) the prospect of another Iraq movie like so much else about the war is likely to be more wearying than galvanizing. The commercial failure of last autumn’s crop of high-profile Iraq-themed movies — Paul Haggis’s “In the Valley of Elah” and Brian De Palma’s “Redacted” among them — has hardened into conventional wisdom about the moviegoing public’s reluctance to engage the war on screen. But those movies did not necessarily deserve their fate and it would be a shame if “Stop-Loss” were to follow them into oblivion." which show mock-amateur video of young soldiers at rest and on duty. Their teasing is raucous and rude and it is clear from the start that they are neither saints nor monsters but rather the impure products of American pop culture. With exaggerated bravado they sing “Courtesy of the Red White and Blue (The Angry American) ” Toby Keith’s anthem of 9/11 payback which threatens righteous whuppings for America’s enemies: “And it feels like the whole wide world is raining  down on you.”" ” Kimberly Peirce’s long-awaited follow-up to “Boys Don’t Cry ” arrives in theaters in the wake of some dispiriting milestones. We have just marked the fifth anniversary of the United States-led invasion of Iraq and the 4 000th American military death since the war began. The level of violence appears to be creeping up again and troop levels are likely to stay where they are at least until the next president’s inauguration." somebody somewhere had another plan. Brandon discovers that the military has invoked its stop-loss policy extending his contract and requiring him to go back to Iraq for another tour. Enraged at this betrayal he goes AWOL. Following in a long movie tradition he responds to his troubles by hitting the road in a vintage Detroit muscle car with a beautiful woman in this case Steve’s fiancée Michele (Abbie Cornish)." ” Ms. Peirce’s amazing 1999 debut are its feel for the rhythms of small-town life and its sense of the emotional risks of friendship both on display in “Stop-Loss ” which is more interested in character and in place than in narrative housekeeping. A cleaner plot would suspend the audience and the characters between equally plausible happy and sad endings." if anything by its sincere affection and undisciplined compassion —  about the imperfect young men who keep returning to a war the rest of us would prefer not to think about." literally and metaphorically a journey to nowhere. Mr. Phillippe seethes and worries beautifully and Ms. Cornish in spite of some accent trouble (her native Australia is a long way from Texas geographically and phonetically) gets every nuance of her character’s toughness and bewilderment exactly right." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/28/movies/28cool.html
which doesn’t allow for the kind of depth this story deserves and of which the filmmakers are obviously capable. Another issue is its narrow view of how art happens and how histories should be told. Despite periodic sideways glances the filmmakers overly isolate these painters and sculptors who lived worked and played in Los Angeles from their historical context from the overlapping cross-pollinating worlds of the local surfers the avant-garde filmmakers architects dancers jazz musicians hot rodders bikers novelists poets playwrights intellectuals and graphic designers who were also doing their own cool thing — some for years others for decades — not to mention those vulgarians in Hollywood. “The Cool School” offers a tantalizing taste; now for the meal." ” is well cool but it’s also fairly parochial. It’s received wisdom that Los Angeles in the 1950s was a cultural wasteland or “dust bowl ” as the movie’s publicity material puts it. It’s understandable why artists who came of some kind of age in Los Angeles then would recycle this sort of self-serving nonsense as if they were the only ones to have made this notional desert bloom but it’s disappointing that the filmmakers do the same. By the time Ferus opened its doors Los Angeles was already a cultural oasis even if New York — represented in the movie by a hilariously condescending Ivan C. Karp of the OK Harris gallery in SoHo — and too many Angelenos weren’t paying attention." who together also produced the movie “The Cool School” replaces the familiar great-man theory of history for a great-guys one instead. (Despite a few women including the regal Shirley Nielsen Hopps who was married first to Walter Hopps and then to another Ferus notable Irving Blum most of the faces here are male.) It’s an old story in some ways a myth-making tale of a group of post-World War II aesthetic adventurers who working together and alone created an exciting American moment. Given the lingering prejudice of some East Coasters and the inferiority complex of select West Coasters though it’s also a story that deserves to be told often and as loudly as possible." ” a breezy lively documentary about a thin slice of the Los Angeles fine art scene in the 1950s is easy on the eyes and the ears too. The focal point of this historical gloss is the Ferus Gallery which opened in 1957 and soon became a cultural hub with shows dedicated to local talent like Ed Ruscha Robert Irwin Ed Moses Wallace Berman and Ed Kienholz and a then-unknown out-of-towner with a fondness for Campbell’s Soup named Andy Warhol." not far from the Sunset Strip Ferus was founded by Mr. Kienholz and Walter Hopps a Los Angeles native who as a teenager had met Marcel Duchamp. The movie’s director Morgan Neville tells what followed through an often fascinating visually charming and intelligently edited mix of found footage home movies still images and contemporary interviews ably assisted by a jazz score and narration from the actor (and photographer) Jeff Bridges. The older footage is particularly delightful including the sights and sounds of a grinning goateed Mr. Kienholz bargaining with a junkyard dealer to buy a 1953 Cadillac door that probably ended up in one of his amazing assemblages." Dylan Robertson and Mr. Neville; edited by Mr. Robertson and Chris Perkel; music by Dan Crane and William Ungerman; released by Arthouse Films. At Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/26/movies/26alex.html
with English subtitles) and directed by Alexander Sokurov; director of photography Alexander Burov; edited by Sergei Ivanov; music by Andrei Sigle; produced by Mr. Sigle; released by Cinema Guild. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." an elderly woman visiting her grandson at the Chechen front. The name Alexandra scarcely seems coincidental and neither does the unusual casting. Alexandra is played by the soprano Galina Vishnevskaya the widow of the cellist and conductor Mstislav Rostropovich about whom Mr. Sokurov recently made a  documentary.  In 1978 the Soviet government stripped the dissident couple (Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn lived at their dacha) of their citizenship. Mr. Rostropovich gave an impromptu cello concert next to the Berlin Wall after it fell and with his wife returned home after the collapse of the Soviet Union. When Ms. Vishnevskaya now 81 enters this film she carries with her the weight of history." a sentiment that might sound mawkish or obscene coming from another filmmaker. But “Alexandra” strikes me as an enormously honest work not just because there is palpable truth in its very location (it was shot in Chechnya including in and around the capital Grozny) but also because of the contradictions it lays open like a wound. There’s a stunning moment early in the film when Denis invites his grandmother into an armored vehicle. Squeezed into this metal tomblike space she sniffs the air and remarks on the bad smell. It’s the odor of men and metal says Denis who then passes her a Kalashnikov. She grips the rifle easily her eyes narrowing." flashing eyes lock on their targets like tracking beams  —  Ms. Vishnevskaya reminds me of nothing so much as one of those well-seasoned time-toughened divas for whom the word no is never an option even in the middle of a war zone." another place anywhere but here. Mr. Sokurov a Russian director best known in America for “Russian Ark” (2002) makes films so far removed from the usual commercial blather  that it sometimes seems as if he’s working in a different medium. His work is serious intense at times opaque and so feverishly personal that it also feels as if you’re being invited into his head not just another reality." at least vertically or maybe she just looks tiny next to all those soldiers. Yet she’s also monumental a formidable almost epic presence even when she’s wearily sinking onto a bench or shrinking down to a speck against the vast dusty landscape. But Alexandra is never lost even in this strange land that she barrels into with such confidence —  poise that at times borders on swagger. “Alexandra” has been called an antiwar film by some but I’m not so sure that it is even if it’s by no means pro-war. The tenderness with which Mr. Sokurov films these young soldiers with their downy necks and diffident smiles  —  they look at Alexandra with crushing yearning  —  seems proof enough of that." Alexandra has just come from her home elsewhere in Russia an elliptically rendered trip that ends with her literally waddling into the Chechen front towing a small wheeled shopping cart. She’s a dumpling of a woman and with her cart and head scarf she looks as if she’s going marketing but she’s actually visiting her grandson Denis (Vasily Shevtsov) an unmarried 27-year-old captain who’s been at war too long." and then in an instant it’s gone. Much like the film itself which offers lovely images amid horrifying devastation the character of Alexandra contains multitudes that invest the film with a peculiar tension. With his roving camera Mr. Sokurov follows Alexandra around faithfully but he also makes time and space for the world she inhabits a world partly made by war: ruined buildings with their fronts torn away rows upon rows of military boots and uniforms (almost all that’s for sale at the market) the haunted haunting eyes of unsmiling young Chechen men. Mr. Sokurov’s images speak so eloquently he doesn’t need many words." a ramshackle warren of wooden barracks and walkways often clouded with swirling dust. The purpose of her visit remains vague. Recently widowed she misses Denis but she’s also curious about his life and the war. Over the next few days and nights she roams about the base talking with Denis and the other soldiers climbing in and out of military vehicles while emitting a stream of murmurs mutters and oy oy oy.  At one point she ventures off base where she meets a Chechen woman Malika (Raisa Gichaeva) who says the Russian soldiers always look so small to her. And she adds with a rueful smile there are so many of them." Vasily Shevtsov (Denis) and Raisa Gichaeva (Malika)." and there are things in this remarkable film  —  bits of dialogue one or two references and certainly the great heaviness of Russian identity  —  that remain out of my grasp. This may seem like a surprising confession but art including that created in Hollywood rarely if ever reveals itself instantaneously. That may sound self-evident though given the diminished appetite in America for serious films it bears repeating. “Alexandra” isn’t a difficult film but neither is it obvious. It’s a beautiful eerie work of art about life and death and the love a grandson expresses when he plaits his grandmother’s hair. It has revealed some of its mysteries and I’m sure it will reveal more when I return to it again." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/26/movies/26shot.html
“This started a long time ago.”" somebody’s gonna finish it.”" Douglas Ligon (Boy Hayes) Barlow Jacobs (Kid Hayes) Michael Abbott Jr. (Cleaman Hayes) Travis Smith (Mark Hayes) Lynnsee Provence (Stephen Hayes) David Rhodes (John Hayes) Glenda Pannell (Annie) Cole Hendrixson (Carter) and Natalie Canerday (Nicole)." ” a drama about warring clans of brothers in small-town southern Arkansas defines the classic western phrase “doing what a man’s got to do” as both a moral imperative and a biological compulsion. The movie is filled with unremarkable men who would rather die than appear weak." his first three sons crash his funeral. Son calmly declares that just because the elder Hayes reformed doesn’t make him a good man then spits into the open coffin." Mark Stephen and John blame Son’s disruption of the funeral. Son blames his father’s long-ago viciousness then charges his mother (Natalie Canerday) with demonizing his father’s new family: “You raised us to hate those boys and we do and now it’s come to this.”" Adam Stone; edited by Steven Gonzales; music by Ben Nichols and Lucero; produced by David Gordon Green Lisa Muskat and Jeff Nichols; released by Liberation Entertainment and International Film Circuit. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." Hayes who sired two clans of boys with two women. In his first marriage he was a violent alcoholic who never gave his children proper names; to this day they’re known only as Son (Michael Shannon) Kid (Barlow Jacobs) and Boy (Douglas Ligon)." then became sober remarried came to Jesus and had four more sons: Cleaman (Michael Abbott  Jr.) Mark (Travis Smith) Stephen (Lynnsee Provence) and John (David Rhodes). The second Hayes family owns a cotton and soybean farm and is comfortably middle class. Son in contrast works at a fish hatchery and lives in a shack near a freeway: his wife Annie (Glenda Pannell) recently took their son Carter (Cole Hendrixson) and moved out because Son says she was tired of his gambling. Kid sleeps in a tent in Son’s yard and Boy lives in a van by the river." but it’s still shocking because of its juxtaposition with mundane images of daily life. Childish insults cruel pranks and awkward assaults coexist with middle-school basketball practices and trips to the grocery store and carwash.  The feud’s main players know they’d all be better off if they stopped fighting but they keep sabotaging peace offerings with huffy macho taunts." Kid and Boy’s childhoods but we also never even see a photo of their father. Son’s back is covered with shotgun-pellet scars but we get only a sketchy account of how he acquired them. The film is a here-and-now American potboiler and a stripped-down parable that can be appreciated by any culture." Adam Stone — the longtime second-unit photographer for the filmmaker David Gordon Green who helped produce “Shotgun Stories” — often frame their tortured self-destructive  characters within wide shots of depopulated streets verdant fields and placid bodies of water acknowledging the beauty these men are too self-involved by rage to see." amiable easily flustered Boy is the film’s moral center. Shambling through the film’s final third his bruised face squashed atop a neck brace he’s a battered Everyman torn between decency and hate." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/22/movies/22tyle.html
after all is one of the few genuine populists left in American filmmaking. There are plenty of panderers and showmen of course and legions of market researchers and focus-group tweakers. But Mr. Perry built his audience the hard way and over the long haul first on the traveling theater circuit catering to African-American audiences and then with a series of movies beginning with “Diary of a Mad Black Woman” in 2005." I mean. His work may be rooted in the experience of a particular group but there is nothing exclusive about it. His ideas about family religion love and community — and the contradictions and collisions among   those things — are unlikely to seem exotic anywhere." who plays a possible love interest she pretty much acts for both of them — but her skills come in handy when  displays of large and intense emotion are required." a hard-pressed single mother of three children  who travels from Chicago to a small town in Georgia  to attend the funeral of the father she never knew. Vera and Leroy along with the relatively more staid Sarah (Margaret Avery) Cora (Tamela Mann) and L. B. (Frankie Faison) turn out to be members of Brenda’s extended family. They provide both broad humor and warm hometown wisdom two elements that combine with florid melodrama and hard-won romance to complete Mr. Perry’s entertainment formula." loading it up with more stuff than is healthy or easily digestible. But this is an aspect of his generosity his desire to sate and satisfy a hungry audience. What he serves up — a mixture of moralism and forgiveness semibawdy humor and cautionary drama mockery and affection — may sometimes lack coherence but never integrity." the vociferous big-boned grandmother Mr. Perry played in that film (and then in “Madea’s Family Reunion”) makes a brief raucous cameo near the end of “Meet the Browns.” Not for any reason having to do with the picture’s many story lines but just as a kind of lagniappe a gift of pure silliness for the loyal public. Up until then most of the comic work has been capably performed by David Mann playing a garishly dressed Southern fellow named Leroy Brown and Jenifer Lewis as his viper-tongued liquored-up sister Vera." but he does not soften his presentation of some hard facts of life. Poverty drug dealing the abandonment of children by their fathers — these are among the problems Brenda and her children face. Mr. Perry does not linger morbidly over them but neither does he wish them away." I should note that at 11 o’clock on Good Friday morning I was the only white person at a nearly full showing of “Tyler Perry’s Meet the Browns.”  I was probably also the only person who was there for work rather than pleasure though the pleasure in the room was pretty contagious. Mr. Perry has never received much love from members of my profession and like his last few movies “Meet the Browns” arrived in theaters on  Friday    without holding advance press screenings." a vertically arranged variation on what is found in suburban shopping malls throughout the land.  It is a place to watch Hollywood blockbusters in stadium seating with a concession-stand combo special in your lap. The crowds though are anything but generic thanks to the cinema’s location. It’s an easy trip from both brownstones and housing projects a short walk from the blue-collar Fulton Street Mall and the gentrified retail strips of Court and Smith Streets south of Atlantic Avenue. It’s one of those increasingly rare New York spots where the city’s various demographic strands cross and commingle." but they aren’t exercises in pure escapism either. They offer comic relief and moral correction. And if they feel corny and hokey at times — O.K. a lot of the time — that is partly because they make everyone who sees them white critics included feel right at home." uneven acting and a directing style that can best be described as functional. Still the plentiful close-ups of Ms. Bassett’s face one of the most beautiful and expressive in movies nearly make up for the overall visual drabness." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/22/movies/22shut.html
Masayuki Ochiai conjures textbook J-horror miasma: clammy clinical interiors; overcast skies; diffuse cityscapes. He also gives Alfred Hitchcock a nod with a sequence nakedly stolen from “Psycho ” and draws unease from Jane’s disorientation in a foreign city. Tokyo in fact may be the movie’s most fascinating player." flies cameras." a compelled suicide — lack novelty. Only a spectral smooch in which a serpentlike tongue chokes Mr. Jackson prompts a lasting chill. That is one nasty mouthful." that of a woman (the mesmerizing Megumi Okina) whom a newlywed Brooklyn couple — Jane (Rachael Taylor) and Ben (Joshua Jackson) a commercial photographer on a working vacation in Japan — have apparently run over by accident. She vanishes but later dogs their steps in Tokyo and New York sometimes in window reflections but mostly as a ghostly smudge in Ben’s pictures. Jane is determined to learn her identity; Ben is in no hurry for good reason." electronics is the medium through which the afterlife contacts the living. In “One Missed Call ” cellphones impart fatal portents; in “The Ring ” it’s videotape. Here it’s photographs lots of photographs from a disposable camera a Pentax a Polaroid any brand name you can flash on the screen." the deluge of Asian fright films remade in Hollywood hasn’t dried up yet. Not by the evidence of “Shutter ” produced by people behind the American versions of “The Grudge” and “The Ring” and itself a remake of the 2004 Thai film  “Shutter.”  Fans of J-horror  (for Japan where the genre was born;  its conventions have since spread to South Korea and Thailand) will find “Shutter” familiar; others may just doze." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/movies/21polo.html
thoughtful narration never flirts with paranoia. Particularly effective is an interview with the journalist Anna Politkovskaya who was  murdered  in Moscow in  October 2006.  She  tells of her amazement that her linking of a putative terrorist to President Putin’s government had elicited no public outcry." “Poisoned by Polonium” is not without its lighter moments. During a conversation with Andrei Lugovoi the former Russian intelligence officer now charged  by British authorities with Mr. Litvinenko’s murder the filmmaker is offered tea. He politely declines." Marina;  and a wide variety of public and private figures the filmmaker examines those allegations. Chief among them is the role of the Russian Federal Security Bureau a successor of the K.G.B. in a vast network of political and financial corruption including extortion contract killings and the 1999 bombing of a Moscow apartment building." ” Mr. Nekrasov’s extraordinary testament to a man whose incendiary allegations against his government might have had fatal consequences." with English subtitles) by Mr. Nekrasov and Olga Konskaya; directors of photography Sergei Tsikhanovich and Marcus Winterbauer; edited by Ms. Konskaya and Mr. Nekrasov; music by Irina Bogushevskaya; produced by Ms. Konskaya; released by Kino International. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/movies/21gate.html
thriller is a convenient but imprecise descriptor for “Boarding Gate ” which resists categorization despite Mr. Assayas’s stated insistence that he was trying (really) to make a B movie in English. Much like “demonlover” this new film plays with various genre codes and conventions — the femme fatale violence murder an atmosphere of danger and dread — but plays with them very differently than most run-of-the-mill modern thrillers. Indeed both films depend on your having at least a passing familiarity with the kind of anonymously produced slick flicks — slickly packaged slicked with blood — that are an industry staple from Hollywood to Hong Kong. You may not remember the names of these industrial entertainments but they’re invariably playing on a screen near you." the former lover of a shifty financially struggling American businessman Miles (Michael Madsen) who lives works and plays rough in Paris. An ex-prostitute Sandra wants to make a new life running a club in Beijing but she needs money which leads her back to Miles as well as to a shady couple Lester and Sue (Carl Ng and Kelly Lin). Murder and mystery lead Sandra to Hong Kong where guns are drawn and discharged. At one point Kim Gordon the frontwoman for Sonic Youth shows up barking orders in Cantonese a moment of delirium in what has become an increasingly unhinged enterprise." Michael Madsen (Miles) Carl Ng (Lester) Kelly Lin (Sue) Joana  Preiss (Lisa) Alex Descas (Andrew) and Kim Gordon (Kay)." but only because the shiny surfaces of his films with their excesses and putatively exotic locales are so beguiling and even distracting. “Boarding Gate” certainly offers plenty of visual distractions the image of Ms. Argento getting down and dirty with Mr. Madsen included. And there is no question that Mr. Assayas a former film critic for Cahiers du Cinéma knows full well the commercial value of female nudity and not just its aesthetic charm. That said even in “Boarding Gate ” a modestly scaled self-consciously tawdry exercise in genre appropriation Mr. Assayas manages to say more about what it is to be human — to desire to fear to be alone — than most filmmakers say in a lifetime." it’s easy to be dazzled by Mr. Assayas’s camerawork — the way he catches a person’s movement as well as the volition behind that movement — but watching “Boarding Gate” I was again struck by how he uses music to amplify reality almost as if he were inviting you to listen to the songs playing in other people’s heads. His use of Brian Eno here is particularly potent. Mr. Eno creates music that drifts around you enveloping you in moods and waves of feeling which is precisely what Mr. Assayas does as a filmmaker. Mr. Eno has said that for him making popular music is about “creating new imaginary worlds and inviting people to join them ”  a sentiment that Mr. Assayas no doubt understands." ” which involves corporate intrigue and pornography sex is a commodity and a spectacle a means of control and a weapon of power. Business transactions resemble mating rituals and sexual encounters are as erotic as watching traders skirmish at the Stock Exchange. The sex in “Boarding Gate” is more complicated partly because Sandra isn’t just a conduit for Mr. Assayas’s ideas — she isn’t simply another of cinema’s overdetermined whores — but also an identifiably real cringingly human character. “Demonlover ” with its sleek surfaces slippery ideas and pulp flourishes is a perfect critical object. But “Boarding Gate ” despite its periodic and self-conscious outlandishness feels much more tethered to  lived experience which is Mr. Assayas’s great subject." ” in which she comes across as a postmodern Pearl White who starred in silent adventure serials like “The Perils of Pauline.” Ms. Argento seems to invite trouble and Mr. Assayas who has a way of capturing the seemingly ineffable has a thing for troubled troubling women." ” a casually beautiful preposterously plotted elliptical thriller earned little love last year when it played at the Cannes Film Festival where it was shown out of competition. It didn’t do much for Mr. Assayas’s reputation at least among some critics who had been just as eager to dismiss his other recent films among them “Clean” (2004) and the much-maligned “demonlover” (2002). What “Boarding Gate” did do was reconfirm Ms. Argento as one of contemporary cinema’s most fascinating creatures. Her on-screen ferocity is now generating as much interest as her tattoos — an angel hovers above her pubic bone and an eye stares out from one shoulder — or the ease with which she sheds her clothes which explains why I can describe those tattoos with confidence." rougher death." same-old movie-packaged fun and death. It seems fitting then that the first and final images in “Boarding Gate” are so blurred you can’t tell what you’re looking at. Yet even after the opening image comes into focus —  two men fire guns at an indoor shooting range — you realize you still don’t know what you’re watching. Seeing is believing (something sometimes) but seeing isn’t knowing Mr. Assayas likes to remind us. And so in “Boarding Gate” he racks up one eye-catching incident after another (involving sadomasochistic sex pooling blood and smuggled drugs) that swirl on screen with little apparent connection." Yorick Le Saux; produced by François Margolin; released by Magnet Releasing. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/movies/21palm.html
Miki Manojlovic (Miki) Kevin Bishop (Tom) Siobhan Hewlett (Sarah) Dorka Gryllus (Luisa) and Jenny Agutter (Jane)." bruised by grief and by a sense of diminished prospects. To see her recover her toughness and humor is moving and satisfying despite the dubious narrative machinery that enables her rebirth. “Irina Palm” is for the most part a phony trifle but at its heart somehow is a real and fascinating person." based on a script by Mr. Blasband; director of photography Christophe Beaucarne; edited by Ludo Troch; music by Ghinzu; produced by Entre Chien et Loup Pallas Film Samsa Film Ipso Facto Films Liaison Cinématographique Ateliers de Baere and RTBF Television; released by Strand Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes. This film is not rated." where she innocently answers a want ad and finds herself ensconced in the cozy comical demimonde of prostitution. To minimize implausibility and avoid making the audience uncomfortable the filmmakers contrive to give Maggie a specialty that does not involve penetration or face-to-face contact with clients. Instead she sits alone in a room with a hole in the wall and provides a form of satisfaction suggested by her professional pseudonym which is also the movie’s title. And she’s so skilled that men are soon lining up and insisting on her special services." “Irina Palm ” directed by Sam Garbarski from a screenplay by Philippe Blasband and Martin Herron does rise slightly above the silly clichés embedded in its story. This is mostly because of Marianne Faithfull who plays Maggie a middle-class suburban widow preparing to settle into a meek and marginal old age. Maggie has a few friends but her great love is for her grandson Olly whose life is threatened by an illness that can be cured only by an experimental treatment available in Australia that his family can’t afford. This fact efficiently disarms any prudish objections to Maggie’s behavior since the life of an innocent child is at stake." and before long she is glowing with renewed confidence and self-esteem. Of course predictable dangers and complications loom on the horizon. But the rather shopworn plot of “Irina Palm” is buoyed by Mr. Garbarski’s sense of realism — he manages to make the movie look and feel as if it were a slice-of-life drama rather than a preposterous fable — and above all by Ms. Faithfull." but it belongs to a sturdy and very British genre: the naughty-granny comedy in which an older woman is liberated and rejuvenated by an excursion into vice. In this case the iffy activity is sex for hire which may give the film a jolt of topicality for New York audiences. The workaday London sex shop where parts of “Irina Palm” take place is decidedly down-market compared with the Emperor’s Club V.I.P. but it also may be less tawdry. In this kind of movie sleaze and salaciousness are quickly banished in favor of sentimental good cheer." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/movies/21hamm.html
while obligatory has its charming moments (particularly a flirtatious exchange that employs the Chinese word  chi  as a euphemism)." self-destructive Los Angeles handyman named Jerry Ferro (Adam Carolla) loses his job and his girlfriend then reconnects with his past as a Golden Gloves boxer and tries to qualify for the United States Olympic team at  40." based on a story by Adam Carolla; director of photography Marco Fargnoli; edited by Rich Fox; production designer Mickey Siggins; produced by Eden Wurmfeld Heather Juergensen and Eric Ganz; released by International Film Circuit and Ace Carolla Entertainment. In Manhattan at the AMC Empire 25 234 West 42nd Street. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." Oswaldo Castillo (Ozzie) Heather Juergensen (Lindsay Pratt) Mike LeMat (Christopher Darga) Constance Zimmer (Nicole) Tom Quinn (Coach Eddie Bell) Harold House Moore (Robert Brown) Jeff Lacy (Malice Blake) and Jonathan Hernandez (Victor Padilla)." an amateur boxer and cable  television veteran has a tendency to riff when he should be acting and the whole project — written by Kevin Hench and directed by Charles Herman-Wurmfeld (“Kissing Jessica Stein”) — is rambling and disorganized. At the same time though “The Hammer” also has dry wit and unforced working-class swagger and hits some surprising emotional notes." the real love story is in  the central male friendship between Jerry and his chief rival the younger more talented  Robert Brown (Harold House Moore). But rather than set  Robert  up as a cardboard nemesis “The Hammer” has Jerry slowly forge a friendship with him based on competitive drive and grudging mutual respect then builds it to a payoff that’s as unexpected as it is moving." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/movies/21gran.html
this 104-minute movie is so modest that you could write a review on a cocktail napkin which is probably where Mr. Penn and Mr. Bierman outlined the story. (Mr. Penn has said that the movie was entirely improvised.) Essentially a bunch of characters play poker; somebody wins. There’s more though not much more including Mr. Harrelson serenading the ladies while wearing a hairpiece that looks like something the cat coughed up. Also worth a mention is the startling image of the director Werner Herzog as a player known only as the German walking into a casino to the throbbing beat of 50 Cent while accompanied by bodyguards and many caged small animals." Anthony Hardwick; edited by Abby Schwarzwalder; music by Stephen Endelman; production designer Shepherd Frankel; produced by Bret Saxon Jeff Bowler Mr. Penn Gary Marcus Bobby Schwartz and Ross M. Dinerstein; released by Anchor Bay Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." and if you’re in the right mood you might too. A disposable moderately humorous distraction directed by Zak Penn from an idea he cooked up with Matt Bierman “The Grand” is a strenuously faked digital-video documentary about the ins and outs heavy bets and close calls that take place during a high-stakes Las Vegas poker game. In truth it’s an overcrowded party to which the rest of us have been only grudgingly invited a would-be laugh-in with various funny types — notably Woody Harrelson Cheryl Hines and Richard Kind — and a whole lot of slapdash filler." David Cross (Larry Schwartzman) Dennis Farina (Deuce Fairbanks) Cheryl Hines (Lainie Schwartzman) Richard Kind (Andy Andrews) Chris Parnell (Harold Melvin) Werner Herzog (the German) Jason Alexander (Dr. Yakov Achmed) Ray Romano (Fred Marsh) Michael McKean (Steve Lavisch) Hank Azaria (Mike the Bike)  and Gabe Kaplan (Seth Schwartzman)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/movies/21plan.html
Mr. Lee tracks teams from several countries as they devise and perfect their routines. Certain nationalities  are known for particular strengths: the French for their muscular expressiveness the Japanese for their innovative choreography the Koreans for their technical excellence and conceptual boldness. (One of the two Korean teams competing in the world finals retells the history of North and South Korea in dance.)" ” an experienced street dancer asserts that break dancing is “as legitimate as any dance that has ever existed.” This brisk nonfiction feature directed by Benson Lee makes his case showing international teams of break dancers — or b-boys — battling to win best-in-the-nation status in their home countries then going on to compete in the 2005  world finals at the Volkswagenhalle in Braunschweig Germany." Vasco Nunes; edited by Jeff Marcello and Mr. Lee; produced by Amy Lo and Mr. Lee; released by Elephant Eye Films. At the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." from moment to moment “Planet B-Boy” is fun sometimes thrilling and packed with illuminating details and striking personalities —  like  the Korean dancer nicknamed Laser who we’re told “has spent  three  or  five  years solely spinning on his head.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/movies/21dril.html
mostly of Mr. Apatow’s oeuvre I was inclined to believe that “Drillbit Taylor” was a cheap knockoff that the producer credit Mr. Apatow receives at the beginning was akin to the Rolex insignia on the watch I bought for  $20 on Canal Street a while back. But it makes more sense to think of this dumb little picture with Mr. Apatow’s wife Leslie Mann in a supporting role and Seth Rogen one of his alter egos sharing credit for story and screenplay as part of the Apatow discount line. “You get what you pay for ” the tag line on the advertisement says. I saw it free and I still feel cheated." rarely amusing things happen including a lot of punches  to the face and groin. The only reliably funny thing in the movie is Mr. Wilson’s zoned-out improvisational riffing but his oddball comic intensity is shamelessly exploited rather than given material on which to feed. This is too often the way lazy filmmakers deal with gifted screen comedians. Point the camera at Mr. Wilson (or Will Ferrell or Ben Stiller or Jim Carrey) write a check and figure that the shtick will carry a movie at least as far as a decent opening-weekend gross. That’s a waste of talent and “Drillbit Taylor” is a waste of time." Leslie Mann (Lisa) Danny McBride (Don) Josh Peck (Ronnie) David Dorfman (Emmit) Troy Gentile (Ryan) Nate Hartley (Wade) and Alex Frost (Filkins)." ” of which Mr. Apatow was an executive producer; the 1980 high school drama “My Bodyguard”; Jean Renoir’s “Boudu Saved From Drowning” (or at least Paul Mazursky’s remake “Down and Out in Beverly Hills”). Worthy influences all. But “Drillbit Taylor” is so ploddingly directed (by Steven Brill) and lazily written that it adds up to little more than a diffuse collection of second-hand gags and jokes few of them funny." based on a story by Edmond Dantes Mr. Brown and Mr. Rogen; director of photography Fred Murphy; edited by Thomas J. Nordberg; music by Christophe Beck; production designer Jackson De Govia; produced by Judd Apatow Susan Arnold and Donna Arkoff Roth; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes." a tall one with glasses (Nate Hartley) and a shrimpy one with braces (David Dorfman) —  find their pathetic efforts at coolness met with abuse from a pair of bullies. These are not just run-of-the-mill jocks but full-fledged sociopaths in particular the one called Filkins (Alex Frost). To fight back the boys enlist the help of the title character (Owen Wilson) a good-natured homeless man who claims to be veteran of the  Army Special Forces." but it also carries risks of backlash and brand dilution." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/19/movies/19moon.html
the movie lines up a succession of nasty gringos to block his path. As he evades the clutches of a drug addict child traffickers and the United States Border Patrol nonwhites rally to protect him in the form of kindly migrant workers and traveling musicians. Meanwhile jaunty musical interludes ensure that none of this becomes too depressing." say Ken Loach’s marvelous “Bread and Roses ”  “Under the Same Moon” is too busy sanctifying its protagonists and prodding our tear ducts to say anything remotely  novel about immigration policies or their helpless victims. The filmmakers know that middlebrow movie audiences prefer their thorny social issues served lite and with a side order of ham an opportunity to shed happy tears and enjoy a guilt-free drive home to the (let us hope legal) baby sitter." hard-working brown people and morally ambivalent people of mixed race." with his preternatural composure and limitless spunk (the actor is a veteran of five features and countless television commercials) is never in any real danger. Besting challenges ranging from the implausible  to the shamelessly contrived the boy soldiers on to Mommy and an ending requiring the suspension of not only disbelief but also of all cognitive function." Kate del Castillo (Rosario) Eugenio Derbez (Enrique) Maya Zapata (Alicia) Carmen Salinas (Doña Carmen) María Rojo (Reyna) Mario Almada (Padrino) Jesse Garcia (David) and America Ferrera (Martha)." with English subtitles) by Ligiah Villalobos; director of photography Checco Varese; edited by Aleshka Ferrero; music by Carlo Siliotto; production designers Gloria Carrasco and Carmen Giménez Cacho; produced by Ms. Riggen and Gerardo Barrera; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures and the Weinstein Company. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes." “Under the Same Moon”  places all its marketing eggs in the cute-kid basket a container to which American art-house audiences seem particularly drawn. This time the bowling-ball eyes and scripted precociousness belong to the 9-year-old Carlitos (played by the 13-year-old Adrián Alonso) a Mexican moppet whose mother Rosario (Kate del Castillo) works as an illegal domestic in Los Angeles. Every week Rosario calls her son from the same pay phone while the movie milks sentiment from their separation and semaphores their reunion an event as preordained as the end credits." with visible earnestness by Patricia Riggen “Under the Same Moon” blunts the hard edges of immigration with a thick coating of preciousness. Despite engaging performances from Ms. del Castillo and the terrific Eugenio Derbez as a testy road warrior — and some astute “Ugly Betty” product placement in the form of an America Ferrera cameo — the movie appears intended solely to encourage critics to wear out the word “heartwarming.”" ” an “Incredible Journey” for the socially conscience-stricken arrives in theaters trailing a standing ovation from last year’s Sundance Film Festival and more than a whiff of sanctimony. And even allowing that Sundance audiences are notoriously unreliable arbiters of quality — for every “Spanking the Monkey ” there’s a “Spitfire Grill” and a “Quinceañera” — their wholehearted embrace of this manipulative saccharin product is dispiriting." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/19/movies/19love.html
written by Alex Beaupain belong to a strain of contemplative literate French pop that is for  music fans not from France something of an acquired taste. The English subtitles may not help as they sometimes turn Mr. Beaupain’s delicate erotic metaphors into lines like: “Keep your saliva as an antidote/Let it trickle like sweet venom down my throat.”" for all its imperfections “Love Songs” is a worthy and intriguing experiment the latest sortie in an international rescue operation aimed at saving musical cinema from extinction or self-parody. Like other movies that have been involved in this undertaking — “Once ” say or “Hedwig and the Angry Inch” — Mr. Honoré’s film is likely to inspire ardent love among its admirers. The rest of us may envy their passion." every now and again one or more of these attractive articulate love-addled people bursts into song. What do they sing about? What do you think? About love naturellement and also — pourquoi pas? — about Paris. (A nightclub singer croons some verses about Manhattan but who’s he kidding?)" exactly but an  element of coherence is missing. The musical numbers are restrained and not especially showy but their tact makes them feel more rather than less self-conscious. The songs don’t sunder the naturalism that surrounds them but they don’t quite enhance it either and the result is a movie that feels curiously at once modest to the point of diffidence and feverishly overwrought." Ludivine Sagnier (Julie) Chiara Mastroianni  (Jeanne) Clotilde Hesme (Alice) Grégoire Leprince-Ringuet (Erwann) Brigitte Roüan (Mother) and Yannick Renier (Gwendal)." just as noticeably in the Paris of classic French movies — in a vague bracing atmosphere of good old Nouvelle Vague." in this case the couple is a threesome. Ismaël  (the mischievous and soulful Louis Garrel) and his live-in girlfriend Julie (Ludivine Sagnier) have expanded their arrangement to include Ismaël’s co-worker Alice (Clotilde Hesme) an addition that fascinates Julie’s mother (Brigitte Roüan). But the girl-boy-girl threesome which turns out to be short-lived is perhaps the most straightforward emotional configuration in this odd witty touching film. Eventually you see Alice — who insists early on that her primary sexual interests are in women and celibacy — takes up with a young Breton man named Gwendal (Yannick Renier) whose younger brother Erwann (Grégoire Leprince-Ringuet) develops a crush on Ismaël who is also the object of nonsexual stalkerish attention from Julie’s older sister Jeanne (Chiara Mastroianni)." à la mid-’60s Jean-Luc Godard while the camera poetically prowls the streets of the city. And among other sly quotations an early shot of a couple reading in bed evokes a memorable much-reproduced image from François Truffaut’s “Bed and Board.”" with English subtitles) and directed by Christophe Honoré; director of photography Rémy Chevrin; edited by Chantal Hymans; music by Alex Beaupain; production designer Samuel Deshors; produced by Paulo Branco; released by IFC Films and Red Envelope Entertainment. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." though. And so for the most part is “Love Songs ” even if it doesn’t entirely work. It takes some nerve nowadays to conceive a musical that is both realistic and earnest frank in its emotions and cognizant of the complicated states of feeling encountered by frisky young city dwellers. There is nothing mocking or knowing in Mr. Honoré’s fusion of sexual comedy intellectual seriousness and music and he is not shy about throwing strong even shocking moments of drama into the mix. Hovering over the generally good-humored sexual confusion is the specter of mortality as the bed-hopping is interrupted at the end of the film’s first act by a sudden senseless death." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/19/movies/19half.html
Deng Gang (Deng Gang) Zhao Ke (Zhao Ke) Chen Xigui (Mother) and Liu Huibin (Father)." mostly caused by a boyfriend who gambles and may be a murderer. Mr. Ying whose film is part of the Museum of Modern Art’s Contemporasian series lets the subtle comparisons and equally subtle comedy roll along for a while but when there’s an accident at the chemical plant he deftly shifts tone." “The Other Half ” takes awhile to coalesce but once it does it becomes an intriguing exercise in juxtaposition. It’s also a fairly assured example of how to start out droll and end up somber." mostly women with marital troubles and a poor grasp of what the law allows. (One  hauls her ex-husband’s clothes around in a suitcase rather than acknowledge a court’s ruling that he owns the garments.) Also coming in for counsel is an executive from the local chemical plant whose workers are documenting their health problems. “They take wages from me and then they sue me ” the exasperated man exclaims." a quietly beautiful young woman (in a running joke other characters keep comparing her to the actress Zhang Ziyi) who as the film opens lands a job as an office assistant at a law firm in an industrial city in southwest China." with English subtitles) by Mr. Ying  and Peng Shan; directors of photography Li Rongsheng and Mr. Ying; music by Ko Kyota and Zhang Xiao; art directors Mr. Ying and Ms. Peng;  produced by Ms. Peng; released by InBlue. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theater Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/19/movies/19fade.html
Sarah Lassez (Anna Dichter) Michael T. Weiss (Dr. McCabe) Anthony Drazan (Inspector Shea) James Martin Murphy (Father Howard) Steven Petrarca (Dr. Coleman) Devon Odessa (Philosophy) and Andrew Morris (Heloise)." Kenneth Wilson; edited by Christopher Good; music by Cameron Presley and Hollis Lee; produced by David Brooks Taylor and Mr. Stagliano; released by Cinema Epoch. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 14 minutes. This film is not rated." a rare genetic disorder that is just what it sounds like though for more than half the film the only way you would know what he’s battling would be if you had read the press notes. Mr. Stagliano serves up a collage of images: Arthur’s nocturnal wanderings; moments of bliss and violence from his marriage (Sarah Lassez plays his wife); tidbits from an indecipherable half-dream." heard in voice-over. But once some actual conversation does show up you’re glad there isn’t more because Mr. Stagliano who wrote as well as directed doesn’t have much of an ear for it." sleeplessness and leave it at that. But that wouldn’t convey the pretentiousness of this psychological drama: the lingering shots of kitchens and bathrooms and fuzzed-out television screens; the journal-entry voice-overs; the decision to frontload a 74-minute film with 45 minutes of deliberate vagueness." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/15/movies/15doom.html
“Dog Soldiers ” about British troops menaced by werewolves in the Scottish highlands and acquired serious (and well-deserved) critical respect for his 2005 film “The Descent ” about a group of female spelunkers who encounter terrifying creatures while exploring a network of caves." years after the British government quarantined a plague-ravaged Scotland and let its inhabitants die out. The decision is believed to have killed the disease along with the Scottish population but when it surfaces in London officials reveal that a hardy band of Glasgow inhabitants survived the epidemic and might hold clues to a cure." “The Descent” and “Doomsday” are as different as two genre films can be but the falloff in artistic quality is still quantifiable. Where “The Descent” was a slow quiet exquisitely modulated startlingly original film “Doomsday” is frenetic loud wildly imprecise and so derivative that it doesn’t so much seem to reference its antecedents as try on their famous images like a child playing dress-up. Homage without innovation isn’t homage it’s karaoke." Mohawk-topped villain Sol (Craig Conway) is a personality-free retread of Vernon Wells’s memorable Wez from “The Road Warrior.” Major supporting characters — including a squad leader played by Adrian Lester and a gruff yet caring boss portrayed by Bob Hoskins — are so lifeless they could have been cast with inflatable dolls. The final chase modeled on an epic set-piece from Mr. Miller’s second “Mad Max” movie is likewise a bust substituting gore shaky camerawork and chop-chop editing for Mr. Miller’s symphonic build-up and release." here’s a piece of your friend ” snarls a jailer in the post-apocalyptic action picture “Doomsday ” sliding a plateful of charbroiled man-flesh to a captive." one-eyed mercenary Eden Sinclair (Rhona Mitra of the television show “Nip/Tuck”) who is ostensibly entrusted with leading a team of soldiers into Glasgow on a mission to find a doctor-turned-political leader named Kane (Malcolm McDowell) and learn how the Glasgow contingent survived. Really though Eden is mainly on hand to impersonate another sci-fi hero Snake Plissken from John Carpenter’s “Escape From New York ” and to punch kick run and shoot her way through situations shamelessly cribbed from Mr. Carpenter’s film George Miller’s “Mad Max” trilogy “Aliens” and other dystopian touchstones." bad language and extreme violence." the British writer and director Neil Marshall offers many other clues: hands legs and heads lopped off in bloody close-ups; a nonstop soundtrack of adrenaline-stoking rock ’n’ roll; a shot of a cute little bunny blasted into rabbit stew by a remote-controlled sentry cannon." but aside from a few clever music cues — including a Fine Young Cannibals song that accompanies a deranged bacchanal given by fine young cannibals — swagger is unfortunately its only notable quality." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14sputnik.html
through its account of America’s collective response (including panic over nuclear bombardment from space a surge in jingoism and paranoia and an investment in science education that paid off a generation later) the movie lets parallels between that time and the post-9/11 era emerge organically in the manner of a fable that subtly illuminates your own life." ” an account of that Soviet satellite’s effect on the American consciousness deserves notice for its stunning clips (many of which were found on YouTube including rarely seen images from sources in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe). But its main asset is its style. Rather than rely solely on famous talking heads the movie tells its story primarily through editing and narration and emphasizes its interviews with regular citizens who were kids when Sputnik I went up in 1957." based on Mr. Dickson’s book “Sputnik: the Shock of the Century”; edited by John Vincent Barrett; produced by Eric Reid Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Barrett; released by History Films and Balcony Releasing. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. This film is not rated." ominous tones “Sputnik Mania” characterizes post-World War II America as a fat and happy society secure in its belief that it ruled the globe and spooked by the ambitions of a despised and underestimated rival." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14wetlands.html
digital animation and live performances this frisky and forthright film by Dean Budnick chronicles a vision of financing social progress with really great tunes. Often holding close to triple its official capacity of 389 (not including the rats) the club provided a psychedelic haven where the straws were made of paper the matches were recycled and the music often lasted until sunrise. The dream may have ended in 2001 done in by the remorseless march of gentrification and the Giuliani purification program but the music and the memories live on." Jonathan Healey; edited by Mr. Healey; produced by Peter Shapiro and Mr. Budnick; released by First Run Features. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." thriving and eventual closing of the TriBeCa club known as the Wetlands Preserve." Larry Bloch the club opened in 1989 in a former Chinese-food warehouse on Hudson Street. Despite Mr. Bloch’s admitted lack of experience the club quickly gained a reputation for musical democracy nurturing artists as diverse as Blues Traveler and Ani DiFranco. Embracing everyone from Deadheads to ska enthusiasts Mr. Bloch and his staff — whose hiring was more likely to hinge on knowledge of Jerry Garcia’s birthday than on bartending skills — espoused a commitment to populism that reached far beyond the music." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14hear.html
Michael Lonsdale (Mathias Jüst) Jean-Pierre Kalfon (Karl Rose) Laetitia Spigarelli (Louisa) Valérie Dréville (Lynn Sanderson) and Delphine Chuillot (Isabelle)." including the company’s creepy creeping managing director Karl Rose (Jean-Pierre Kalfon) who enlists Simon’s expertise Jüst appears on the verge of a breakdown: he sits in his office without taking calls; he lingers in his Mercedes listening to music. Such shirking may look reasonable (even salutary) but for Rose it’s a potential wrench in the gears of a machine that Simon himself has helped keep running. Simon it emerges has a way of efficiently locating and eliminating the machine’s weak spots of dispensing with its human resources. A talent the filmmakers try to suggest that echoes the rationale of National Socialism." but like too many of the film’s better moments — say the chromatically vivid gathering of dark-suited men in a white bathroom — it doesn’t resonate on any meaningful level. Periodically as in that bathroom interlude Mr. Klotz arranges a handful of Farb employees with their nearly interchangeable slender forms and dark suits in distinct patterns as if to suggest they are more machine than man. Chaplin was wearing coveralls when he made much the same point about the mechanized world in his 1936 masterpiece “Modern Times ” a crucial difference being that he granted his Little Tramp a happy ending the kind of utopian promise that seems inconceivable here because “Heartbeat Detector” has been created in the deeply self-conscious wake of Auschwitz." frustrating exasperating — the French film “Heartbeat Detector” succeeds best as a provocation. An alternately abstract and blunt intellectual exercise this artful assemblage of bodies ideas and camera setups stars Mathieu Amalric as Simon the staff shrink for the French branch of a German-owned petrochemical company called SC Farb. Something is amiss at Farb notably its faltering failing chief executive Mathias Jüst played as an epic of agony and fragility by the indispensable Michael Lonsdale." difficult and far beyond the grasp of this meandering overlong film which grows increasingly muddled as Simon closes in on the story’s late and not terribly surprising reveal. (Here’s a spoiler: sometimes big business in Germany comes with a Nazi past.) Swamped by abstractions the film can only gesture toward the obvious: capitalism kills people do too. The rather lost-looking Mr. Amalric most recently seen on screens giving his left eyeball a furious workout in “The Diving Bell and the Butterfly ” maintains a suitably funereal mien throughout." who have collaborated on a handful of well-regarded previous features (“La Blessure ” among them) “Heartbeat Detector” initially comes across as a series of seemingly disconnected almost random encounters between Simon and assorted intimates and associates. He interviews a prospective employee on video pumps one of Jüst’s former associates for information and flails away drunkenly at a rave with some other Farb minions in what seems to be a peculiarly French brand of company team-building or rather a distinctly French film interpretation of such outings. The morning after finds Simon curled on the ground with a handful of other ravers while one suited man thrusts and twists with choreographed grace a dancer heeding his own beat." with English subtitles) by Elisabeth Perceval based on the book “La Question Humaine” by François Emmanuel; director of photography Josée Deshaies; edited by Rose Marie Lausson; music by Syd Matters; production designer Antoine Platteau; produced by Sophie Dulac and Michel Zana; released by New Yorker Films/Red Envelope Entertainment. Running time: 2 hours 21 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14funn.html
his hands tied his eyes wide with terror — “Why are you doing this? ” Mr. Pitt’s character responds with answers that parody the kind of facile back story usually applied in cases like this:   unhappy childhood; sexual instability; class resentment; bad education. All of it is facetious and none of it explains anything." the same is true of “Funny Games ” which efficiently induces a state of panic and dread and which features some fine bits of acting especially from Mr. Pitt and Ms. Watts. The images Mr. Haneke puts on screen (they are shot with crisp glossy-magazine elegance by Darius Khondji) are shocking but they don’t unfold with the usual slasher-movie jolts of grisliness. The camera frequently stands still as the horror unfolds just beyond its range and when a bloody event takes place we are likely to be shown the face of a passive witness rather than that of the perpetrator or the victim." where the voyeuristic masses are implicated in the gruesome spectacle of senseless cruelty. Are we though? What if the guilt trip never takes off? Or even worse what if the American audience cretins that we are were to embrace Mr. Haneke’s vision not for its moral stringency but for the thrill of say watching Ms. Watts bound at the ankles and wrists hop around in her underwear? Who will be implicated then? I started out by calling Mr. Haneke a sadist but it seems to me that he may be too naïve too delicate to merit that designation which should be reserved only for the greatest filmmakers." Darius Khondji; edited by Monika Willi; production designer Kevin Thompson; produced by Chris Coen Hamish McAlpine Hengameh Panahi Christian Baute and Andro Steinborn; released by Warner Independent Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes." “The Piano Teacher” (2001) “The Time  of the Wolf” (2003) and “Caché” (2005) — Mr. Haneke uses extremity and shock to illuminate social and psychological realities or at least possibilities. His ideas are often facile encapsulations of chic conventional wisdom about the terrible consequences of sexual repression economic privilege or racial hypocrisy but his formal dexterity gives these films a creepy power nonetheless." Tim Roth (George) Michael Pitt (Paul) Brady Corbet (Peter) Devon Gearhart (Georgie) Boyd Gaines (Fred) Siobhan Fallon Hogan (Betsy) and Robert LuPone (Robert)." an Austrian auteur who has worked for many years in France has always been more interested in punishing his audience than in entertaining it. His scrupulously constructed skillfully made films many of which have won prizes at leading international festivals are excruciatingly suspenseful and also more often than not clammy and repellent." who coldly and meticulously manipulate emotion as sadists. Not necessarily in a bad way; filmmaking is to a large degree an art of control. Alfred Hitchcock Stanley Kubrick and Steven Spielberg can all with some justice be accused of sadism a charge that hardly detracts from — indeed that helps to explain — the way they provide entertainment." the kind that seeks to  stop us from taking pleasure in our own masochism. We will endure the pain he inflicts for our own good and feel bad about it in the bargain." blue-eyed and baby-faced appears to be the calm ironical alpha predator while Mr. Corbet acting skittish and high-strung looks like the weaker crazier one. But that might just be part of the game they and Mr. Haneke are playing since the whole point of Peter and Paul is that they function without identifiable motive or affect." ” Mr. Haneke’s first English-language film — and a compulsively faithful replica of his notorious 1997 German-language feature of the same title — subjects its viewers to a long spectacle of wanton and gratuitous brutality. So of course do countless other movies though few of them can claim this one’s artistic pedigree or aesthetic prestige. And indeed the conceit of “Funny Games” is that it offers a harsh exacting critique of vulgar violent amusements a kind of homeopathic treatment for a public numbed and besotted by the casual consumption of images of suffering. That the new version takes place in America is part of the point since Americans — to a European intellectual this almost goes without saying — are especially deserving of the kind of moral correction Mr. Haneke takes it upon himself to mete out." pointless violence." the fun stops here people. Ann and George (Naomi Watts and Tim Roth) drive out to the country with their young son Georgie (Devon Gearhart) towing their lovely wooden sailboat behind their Land Rover and listening to opera CDs. As they settle into their tasteful gated vacation home the family is confronted by two well-spoken young sociopaths who in the course of the following night torment them with a knife a gun a golf club and impeccable prep school manners. These fellows variously address each other as Peter and Paul Tom and Jerry and Beavis and Butt-Head (Leopold and Loeb would have given the game away) and they are played by Michael Pitt and Brady Corbet." who wear immaculate white gloves as they go about their awful business “Funny Games” tries to insulate itself from its own awfulness in the fine cloth of self-consciousness. On a few occasions Mr. Pitt turns to address the audience directly mocking us for rooting for Ann and George’s survival deriding our desire for neat resolutions. At these moments using techniques that might have seemed audacious to an undergraduate literary theory class in 1985 or so the film calls attention to its own artificial status. It actually knows it’s a movie! What a clever tricky game! What fun! What a fraud." bourgeois cultural prestige-monger that you are should congratulate yourself for having purchased a dose of Mr. Haneke’s contempt) but their unsettling effects are not so easy to shake." ” Mr. Haneke shows a certain kinship with someone like Eli Roth whose “Hostel” movies have brought nothing but scorn from responsible critics. (If Mr. Haneke wanted to break into the American market rather than take solace in the ambivalent embrace of the intelligentsia he should have undertaken not a remake but a sequel.) The “Hostel” pictures and their ilk revel in the pornography of blood and pain which Mr. Haneke addresses with mandarin distaste even as he feeds the appetite for it." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14flash.html
“Flash Point” plays like the last hurrah of a criminal underclass facing the inevitable shrinking of its bottom line." “Flash Point” attaches coldly professional visuals to a narrative so baffling that it’s rarely clear who is pounding on whom or why. Kidnappings car chases and extended fight scenes — including the shockingly violent murder of a child — are executed with eye-popping proficiency but the fluid action choreography (directed by Mr. Yen) never surmounts the superficiality of the script. Undercurrents of racial tension between the Chinese cops and their Vietnamese prey remain unexplored and women are used strictly to remind us that killers are human too. Even Dirty Harry had a mom." Wilson Yip having located his film at this volatile political crossroads proceeds to ignore its possibilities. Instead he confines himself to cheering the unorthodox policing methods of his hero Ma Jun (Donnie Yen). Flippantly dismissing departmental concerns about his use of excessive force Ma doggedly pursues his lowlife targets like a souped-up Dirty Harry. When his undercover partner (Louis Koo) is exposed and almost killed justification for Ma’s brutality is no longer required." Louis Koo (Hua Sheng) and Collin Chou (Tony)." Los Angeles and San Francisco." Donnie Yen; written (in Cantonese and Mandarin with English subtitles) by Kam-Yuen Szeto and Lik-Kei Tang; director of photography Man Po Cheung; edited by Ka-Fai Cheung; music by Kwong Wing Chan; production designer Kenneth Mak; action choreography by Yan Hua Kenji Tanigaki John Salvitti and Yuji Shimomura; produced by Donnie Yen and Nansun Shi; released by Third Rail Releasing and Genius Products. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14easy.html
condensed and bullet-point simple “War Made Easy” avoids fancy visuals for a uniformly drab and dispiriting aesthetic. Sporadically narrated by Sean Penn (evincing all the personality of a potato) the movie is cinematically inert if ultimately persuasive. Many of its arguments have been made before — most recently by the excellent four-part “Frontline” series “News War” — but Mr. Solomon digs deeper and hammers harder comparing European and American coverage and lambasting cable news networks for their unquestioning reliance on the White House message of the day. “We should have been more skeptical ” the CNN reporter Wolf Blitzer admits. You think Wolf?" 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 12 minutes. This film is not rated." but the verbiage remains the same in “War Made Easy: How Presidents & Pundits Keep Spinning Us to Death ” a depressing look at political manipulation and news media compliance." Loretta Alper and Jeremy Earp’s nonpartisan documentary is less about propaganda than our news media’s role in its dissemination. Referring to multiple American conflicts Mr. Solomon — who appears on screen to connect the sound bites — presents a litany of journalistic pandering and critical laziness. Bellicose speeches by presidents from Lyndon B. Johnson to George W. Bush reveal frighteningly similar locutions that are then parroted by news organizations fearful of appearing unpatriotic." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14Slee.html
in browns grays and soiled whites “Sleepwalking” sustains a mood of unrelenting bleakness wearing its aesthetic of desolation like a badge of integrity. Integrity and quality unfortunately are not synonymous. “Sleepwalking” may linger in downscale territory where few movies — even indies — dare to tread but it has far too many flaws to make it a likely candidate for awards consideration. And isn’t that kind of recognition the only commercial hope for gloomy kitchen-sink dramas?" leaving Tara with her uncle who works on a road-building crew. After missing one too many days on the job he is fired. He and Tara end up crashing in the basement of his married best friend Randall (Woody Harrelson). It isn’t long before Tara lands in a foster home." James describing his life uses the movie’s title in a baldly inserted statement. A clever fantasy sequence in which Tara is observed by two young boys while lounging poolside at a motel wearing pink sunglasses and roller skates seems to belong to another movie. Before it reaches a tentative unsatisfying ending “Sleepwalking” metamorphoses from meticulous social realism to horror thriller." strong language and violence." Nick Stahl (James Reedy) AnnaSophia Robb (Tara) Dennis Hopper (Mr. Reedy) Woody Harrelson (Randall) and Deborra-Lee Furness (Danni)." the casting isn’t quite right. Mr. Stahl’s James is a little too sensitive and well spoken for the role of a born loser. Ms. Theron’s Joleen should have been closer to Amy Ryan’s crude careless mother in “Gone Baby Gone.” Ms. Robb’s Tara is the best thing in the movie. This tense wary Lolita — albeit one with no inclination to play teasing games — understands her lowly station in life. As much as she cares about her mother she is determined not to follow in her footsteps. Her only choice is to grit her teeth and bide her time." the movie directed by William Maher from a screenplay by Zac Stanford (“The Chumscrubber”) evokes a depressed environment of ugly cramped apartments and flimsy shacks junk furniture muddy backyards and chain-link fences. As its characters eke out a marginal existence they are defined by this oppressive milieu. When they break the rules the police social service agencies and debt collectors are poised to crush whatever hopes they have left. As the song says “Them that’s got shall get/Them that’s not shall lose.”" a careful attention to detail leads you to hope it might succeed. But as Mr. Maher in his feature directing debut brings in surreal touches and puts on literary airs the film’s grip loosens and its vernacular turns increasingly wooden." James snatches Tara from foster care packs them into a car and drives to the childhood home he and Joleen fled many years earlier. The scenes of James and Tara who agree to pose as father and daughter developing a familial bond while on the road give the movie its only glimmer of sweetness. Once they arrive at the Reedy homestead — a run-down cattle and horse farm that is an American gothic house of horrors — they are immediately put to work as unpaid slave labor by the monstrous paterfamilias (Dennis Hopper)." Juan Ruiz Anchía; production designer Paki Smith; produced by J. J. Harris Beth Kono A. J. Dix Rob Merilees and Charlize Theron; released by Overture Films. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." slatternly mother Joleen (Charlize Theron) have been evicted from the house where they were staying with Joleen’s latest boyfriend who was busted for growing marijuana. Tara has no choice but to trail along glumly as Joleen is reduced to begging her meek ne’er-do-well younger brother James (Nick Stahl) to take them in." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14never.html
this lunkheaded film by Jeff Wadlow opens with a brawl from which we gather that the instigator the Iowa teenager Jake Tyler (Sean Faris) has never heard of anger management. This will become an asset when the family moves to Florida to further the tennis aspirations of Jake’s younger brother (a delightful Wyatt Smith). Enrolled in a high school where social status is determined by the ability to render peers unconscious with your bare hands Jake finally discovers the therapeutic benefits of breaking faces." Amber Heard (Baja Miller) Evan Peters (Max Cooperman) Leslie Hope (Margot Tyler) Wyatt Smith (Charlie Tyler) Cam Gigandet (Ryan McCarthy) and Djimon Hounsou (Jean Roqua)." “Never Back Down” plays like a pop-psychology seminar on fathers and sons. As Jake his schoolyard nemesis (Cam Gigandet) and his martial-arts mentor (a slumming Djimon Hounsou) work out their daddy issues on one another the movie speeds up and slows down as though controlled by a director in the grip of competing medications. For those who make it to the final beatdown however the only pill worth taking is the one that makes you forget." “Never Back Down” offers extreme fighting as the modern-day alternative to sex drugs and rock ’n’ roll." Lukas Ettlin; edited by Victor Dubois and Debra Weinfeld; music by Michael Wandmacher; production designer Ida Random; produced by Craig Baumgarten and David Zelon; released by Summit Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14hort.html
however and drawing out the dimensions of the characters this “Horton” supplements Dr. Seuss’s fable with pages from the battered worn-out Hollywood family-film playbook." and here that duty is taken on by Seth Rogen in the role of Morton a motor-mouthed mouse who is Horton’s best friend. Mr. Rogen’s casting like Mr. Carell’s is less a stunt than a kind of pop-culture insurance clause. Get some box-office-proven comedians to do the voice work — Jonah Hill Isla Fisher and Dan Fogler make up part of the B team here in smaller parts — and you can’t fail." ” in case you need reminding — is that it is not one of the worst movies ever made. That’s faint praise I know and I’m even willing to go a bit further. There are aspects of “Horton ” directed by Jimmy Hayward and Steve Martino under the auspices of the 20th Century Fox animation unit responsible for the “Ice Age” movies that are fresh and enjoyable and bits that will gratify even a dogmatic and orthodox Seussian." it also shows some of the limitations of the computer-animation talking-animal genre. The filmmakers revel in the imaginative freedom their image-making technology affords and use it with self-confidence and flair especially in action sequences. (A chase through a field of bright pink clover is  lovely and thrilling.)" ”  “Horton” does not try to flesh out the good doctor’s graphical world by means of sets prosthetic makeup and the other accouterments of live-action moviemaking. The animation is free supple and brightly colored and the crazy curves and angles that Seuss arranged on the page pop into three dimensions with rubbery energy and elastic wit. Who-ville in particular — that speck-borne town with its spindly machinery and gravity-defying architecture — is a wondrously kinetic place. And the Jungle of Nool where Horton passes his time and fights for survival of the Whos is appropriately lush inviting and strange." the citizens of Who-ville must band together to make their presence known in the larger universe. It’s a marvelous tale and a hard one to ruin. And the makers of “Horton Hears a Who!” haven’t though I fear it was not for lack of trying." at least as a commercial proposition. But the star whose presence is clearly meant to be its gold-plated guarantee of success — Jim Carrey as Horton — is also the source of its most egregious failure. Mr. Carrey who also played the Grinch can be an agile and restrained actor when the mood strikes him. But  the steadfast elephant is a vehicle for an endless grating avalanche of clowning and riffing.  Mr. Carrey    not only breaks character with his  goofing he also all but destroys the nobility and sweetness that make  Horton such a durable hero of children’s literature." based on the book by Dr. Seuss; music by John Powell; produced by Bob Gordon; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes. This film is rated G." Steve Carell (Mayor) Carol Burnett (Kangaroo) Will Arnett (Vlad) Isla Fisher (Dr. Mary Lou LaRue) Amy Poehler (Sally O’Malley) Seth Rogen (Morton) Jonah Hill (Tommy) and Dan Fogler (Councilman) ." stubborn and compassionate — traits that are all drowned out in the static of Mr. Carrey’s performance and the hectic proliferation of subplots. It is lucky that just enough of the basic story survives to give the movie a touch of gravity and suspense. Horton hearing the voices of the Whos on their little speck must protect them from a moralizing kangaroo (Carol Burnett) and her henchfolk who include a Russian vulture (Will Arnett) and a band of aristocratically named apes." voiced by Steve Carell is a beleaguered dad who has trouble communicating with his son a moody emo boy named Jo-Jo. The problem with this father-son reconciliation narrative is not that it is un-Seussian — though such intergenerational melodrama almost never figured in Dr. Seuss’s work — but that  it’s tired and sentimental. You don’t get the sense that the writers (Ken Daurio and Cinco Paul) actually believe in it. It just feels like something they know they’re supposed to do." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/movies/14dark.html
with English subtitles) and directed by Antonio Negret; director of photography John Ealer; edited by Luis Carballar Paulo Carballar and Evan Schiff; music by Chris Westlake; production designer Jason Sweers; produced by Craig Anderson and Luiza Ricupero; released by Peace Arch Entertainment and Negret Films. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." ” which presents one particularly convoluted fictional case fails to use any of them to advantage despite how close the writer and director Antonio Negret is to the subject: three members of his family have been the victims of kidnappings." Roberto Urbina (José Gutierrez) Tony Plana (Carlos Gutierrez) David Sutcliffe (Charlie Bain) William Atherton (John King) and Cameron Daddo (Victor Ramis)." watch “Secuestro Express” (2004) about a similar kidnapping in Venezuela which conveys the grave urgency of the situation with style and suspense something the well-intentioned “Towards Darkness” only glimpses. Awareness-building alone doesn’t make a good movie." ” though it avoids that show’s bracing real-time format for pace-deadening flashbacks intended to flesh out the characters specifically the young kidnapping victim José (Roberto Urbina) — and his romance with Luiza (a very un-”Ugly Betty”-like America Ferrera) — who otherwise would have spent the entire film bound and blindfolded until his (maddeningly predictable) fate is decided." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/13/movies/13poor.html
Rossif Sutherland (Donnie Rose) Flex Alexander (Ossie Paris) Greg Bryk (Keith Rose) Laura Regan (Emma) Tonya Lee Williams (Ruth Carvery) and K. C. Collins (Charlie)." but its most powerful scenes involve no jabs or hooks. They are the quiet almost wordless moments between Danny Glover playing a dockworker named George and K. C. Collins playing his brain-damaged son Charlie." Luc Montpellier; edited by Susan Maggi; music by Byron Wong; production designer Bill Fleming; produced by Damon D’Oliveira Mr. Virgo and Mr. Thorne; released by ThinkFilm. At the MoMA Titus 1 Theater 11 West 53rd Street Manhattan as part of its Canadian Front 2008 series. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." Donnie (Rossif Sutherland) the young white man who was jailed for beating Charlie is getting out of prison. The black population of Halifax Nova Scotia where the action is set has collectively been waiting for the moment and soon a boxing match is arranged between Donnie and a local black fighter (Flex Alexander).  The film directed by Clement Virgo and part of the Canadian Front series at the Museum of Modern Art relies on a story that’s too contrived to be completely convincing but the acting is uniformly fine." who is black was savagely beaten as a teenager in a racially tinged confrontation and now as convincingly portrayed by Mr. Collins he cannot speak and is cognitively impaired. Mr. Glover a long long way from the happy idiocy of the “Lethal Weapon” movies perfectly captures the pain and determination of a parent devoted to a disabled child." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/12/movies/12para.html
he reinvents the number as a boisterous meditation on nostalgia and mortality the frontman and the band rocking out in period garb while video screens show clips of his much-younger self performing the same song. A more spirited response to bad notices is hard to imagine." David West; edited by Erik Klein; produced by Bruce David Klein and Paulina Williams; released by Voom HD Pictures and Rave HD. In Manhattan at the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes. This film is not rated." ” for a documentary about Meat Loaf’s 2007 tour refers to that rocker’s classic single the hormone-saturated high school epic “Paradise by the Dashboard Light.” But it doubles as an artistic credo. The film’s director Bruce David Klein portrays his subject — who was 59 during shooting — as an obsessive self-punishing performer striving in vain to put on a live show that  matches the visions in his head." fat kid in Dallas named Marvin Lee Aday; the huge success of his 1977 album with Jim Steinman “Bat Out of Hell”; his self-destruction in the ’80s; and his comebacks with two “Bat” sequels. But at the urging of Meat Loaf Mr. Klein focuses mainly on the 2007 concerts with the preparation depicted in frank often amusing detail. (Criticizing his backup singers’ wardrobe Meat Loaf advises “Less hooker more Studio 54.”)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/12/movies/12blin.html
they murder — stuff that’s inherently interesting even cinematic. It’s much more difficult to pull an audience into a story about a woman who waits or is kept behind which is why the camera tends to follow the cowboy into the plain the cop into the field. In “Blind Mountain” Bai’s attempts to break free give the story momentum a pulse that slows whenever she pauses to catch her breath. Yet while there’s something terribly frustrating about her stop-and-go motion this sense of irritation of feeling bound by and to the story is the point. Some captivity stories abandon the captive for the captor or the rescuer: they get out of prison fast. Not this one." and then it was back to politics and business as usual. “Blind Mountain” is a coda to that story as well as a reminder that art sometimes keeps the truth alive far better than the news." with English subtitles) produced and directed by Li Yang; director of photography Jong Lin; edited by Li Yang and Mary Stephen; art director Shu Yang; released by Kino International. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." it doesn’t get much worse than this though it takes a while for the absolute worst to materialize in “Blind Mountain.” To her shock Bai discovers that she has been sold to a small farming family that has bought her as casually as it does piglets. Locked inside a room with barred windows and a dirt floor her identification papers missing the family’s cretinous son lurking Bai fiercely resists at first with incredulity then rage. Her screams are answered with a gag; her sprints to freedom lead her into chains. She lashes out. She begs and bargains; the family keeps feeding her; she keeps feeding the pigs. All women go through this says the family’s mother clucking sympathy while she holds Bai down." hard-to-shake drama “Blind Mountain ” the Chinese director Li Yang slips in a moment of beauty — a blooming valley wreathed in mist a shepherd tending his flock — of the sort you find in glossy travel magazines. These pastoral visions initially feel like a reprieve a respite from the story’s increasing heaviness but there’s something about these bucolic images that begins to gnaw at you too. This native touristic fantasy about the unspoiled China you realize comes with a brutal price tag." almost as if he were in a hurry to share the kind of story that for the most part tends to be drowned out by upbeat reports about China’s economic growth. Somewhat eerily three weeks after “Blind Mountain” had its premiere at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2007 the news broke about a brick-making factory where hundreds of workers many of them children had been kept in slavelike conditions." without pity. The film opens with a young perilously open-faced college graduate Bai Xuemei — sensitively played by Huang Lu — traveling with a pair of smiling strangers. Anxious to help her parents out of debt Bai believes that she and the strangers will be buying medicinal herbs that they can profitably sell elsewhere. After a series of terse scenes that almost fling you from a  bus to a hotel to a cafe the travelers arrive on a windy country road in a puttering three-wheeled van that finally deposits them in a tiny mountainside village. It’s there after a rush of welcoming smiles gentle murmurs discreet handshakes and a calamitous cup of tea that Bai suddenly finds herself in captivity." who first hit the international scene in 2003 with “Blind Shaft ” a throat-gripping pulpy thriller about a couple of grifters as ruthless as any cooked up by Jim Thompson. In that film  lowlifes roam from one illegal mine to the next knocking off innocent laborers for insurance payouts. Tough and stripped to the narrative bone “Blind Shaft” has a tighter faster feel than this new film in large part because it’s about men who make (bad) things happen in the world while “Blind Mountain” hinges on a woman whose imprisonment — conveyed through claustrophobic rooms and taunting landscapes framed by windows and doors — paradoxically helps hobble the storytelling." Yang Youan (Huang Degui) Zhang Yuli (Ding Xiuying) He Yunle (Huang Decheng) Jia Yinggao (Huang Changyi) and Zhang Youping (Li Qingshan)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07para.html
directed and edited by Gus Van Sant; directors of photography Christopher Doyle and Rain Kathy Li; art director John Pearson-Denning; produced by Marin Karmitz and Nathanaël Karmitz; released by IFC Films. Running time: 1 hour 18 minutes." from River Phoenix’s wanderer in “My Own Private Idaho” to the ghostly Kurt Cobain figure who roams through “Last Days ” those downy itinerant beauties whose words stick to their tongues and whose pain seems as bottomless as their eyes. In some respects Paranoid Park represents adulthood; the critic Amy Taubin has provocatively suggested to Mr. Van Sant that the film’s subtext is that of a gay initiation. (He didn’t disagree.) Both readings are ripe for the picking. But what strikes me the hardest about “Paranoid Park” is the intimacy the love — carnal paternal human — of Mr. Van Sant’s expansive embracing vision. No one is ever really ready for Paranoid Park but neither do you have to go there alone." Alex is effectively shaping this story but in his own singular voice. (“I’m writing this a little out of order. Sorry. I didn’t do so well in creative writing.”) Although you regularly hear that voice — at times in Alex’s surprisingly childish unmodulated recitation at times in dialogue with other characters — you mostly experience it visually as if you were watching a still-evolving film unwinding in the boy’s head. Mr. Van Sant isn’t simply trying to take us inside another person’s consciousness; he’s also exploring the byways dead ends pitfalls and turning points in the geography of conscience which makes the recurrent image of the skate park — with its perilous ledges its soaring ramps and fleetingly liberated bodies — extraordinarily powerful." a haunting voluptuously beautiful portrait of a teenage boy who after being suddenly caught in midflight falls to earth. Like most of Mr. Van Sant’s films “Paranoid Park” is about bodies at rest and in motion and about longing beauty youth and death and as such as much about the artist as his subject. It is a modestly scaled triumph without a false or wasted moment." and his tendency to underscore his own storytelling — he regularly almost compulsively repeats certain images and lines — reinforces rather than undermines the story’s realism. With its soft smudged colors and caressing lighting “Paranoid Park” looks like a dream — the cinematographers are Christopher Doyle and Rain Kathy Li — but the story is truer than most kitchen-sink dramas. This isn’t the canned realism of the tidy psychological exegesis; this is realism that accepts the mystery and ambiguity of human existence. It is the realism that André Bazin sees in the world of Roberto Rossellini: a world of “pure acts unimportant in themselves ” that prepare the way “for the sudden dazzling revelation of their meaning.”" ” Alex (the newcomer Gabe Nevins) lives and skates in Portland Ore. where one evening he is implicated in the brutal death of a security guard. In adapting the young-adult novel by Blake Nelson Mr. Van Sant has retained much of the story — a man dies Alex writes it all down — but has reshuffled the original’s chain of events to create an elliptical narrative that continually folds back on itself. Shortly after the film opens you see Alex writing the words Paranoid Park in a notebook a gesture that appears to set off a flurry of seemingly disconnected visuals — boys leaping through the air in slow motion clouds racing across the sky in fast — that piece together only later." unflinchingly brutal image of a dying man." Mr. Van Sant has traveled from down-and-out independent to Hollywood hire to aesthetic iconoclast a trajectory that holds its own fascination and mysteries. The Hungarian filmmaker Bela Tarr has been instrumental in Mr. Van Sant’s recent artistic renaissance — evident in his newfound love of hypnotically long and gliding camera moves — though his tenure in the mainstream has left its mark too as demonstrated by his rejection of straight narrative. As in three-act character-driven commercially honed narrative in which boys will be boys of a certain type and girls will be girls right alongside them." these bodies appear alternately grounded and out of this world reflecting extremes of physical effort while also suggesting different states of being. The Super-8 images of young men rolling along concrete flipping boards and attitude have the vaguely battered quality of old home movies as if someone had just pulled the footage from a drawer. The glossier 35-millimeter images by contrast look almost monumental epic nowhere more so than when Mr. Van Sant shows one after another skateboarder suspended in the air at the peak of his jump each a vision of Icarus." Dan Liu (Detective Richard Lu) Jake Miller (Jared) Taylor Momsen (Jennifer) Lauren McKinney (Macy) and Olivier Garnier (Cal)." Alex roams through his world like an alien a zombie a prisoner mostly mute his features fixed face blank and impenetrable. He says little betrays less. His smiles are brief infrequent. He’s adrift in a sea of near-strangers including his parents who are almost as conceptual as those in “Peanuts”  (Dad’s tattoos notwithstanding) and his girlfriend (Taylor Momsen) a coltish cheerleader who wants to lose her virginity to him for the sake of convenience. (Mr. Van Sant has rarely been as patient with his female characters as he is with his male ones.) Alex’s single close connection is with his friend Jared (Jake Miller) who brings him to the skate park with the warning “No one’s ever really ready for Paranoid Park.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07frow.html
” an aptly named film made on the cheap in and around New York. An up-close painfully intimate portrait of a hapless manipulative schlub a Loser with a capital L the film offers for our horror and our empathy a creature whose very existence is a rebuke to the stultifying uniformity (the niceness the neatness) of what now often passes for American independent cinema. Written and directed by Ronald Bronstein making his feature-film debut this is personal cinema at its most uncompromising and fierce." and it’s the revelation by turns clinical and compassionate of his frail imperfect humanity that makes the film so potent on its own terms and as a comment on the independent mainstream. Set principally in rooms of variable grimness with an occasional layover in the blurred indistinct streets the story tracks him through a series of singularly ordinary bleak moments and numbing encounters. Among his few acquaintances — friends seems too generous — are Laura (Mary Wall the director’s wife) a dour weepy young woman hiding behind curtains of hair who may have been his lover but now seems no more inviting than the suburbanites to whom he tries (and fails) to sell coupons ostensibly for the relief for those with multiple sclerosis." a kind word a gentle caress. But that isn’t the reality he inhabits for good though mostly for bad and it’s this almost crushing sense of everyday misery and despair that threatens to overwhelm Mr. Bronstein’s film turning this naturalistic slice into a full-on dirge and an assault. I suspect that some viewers may still see it that way and for them I can only suggest “Little Miss Sunshine ” another independently financed film I also like but whose worldview seems finally less persuasive. This has to do with personal temperament admittedly with glasses half-full and half-empty but it also has to do with art." directed and edited by Ronald Bronstein; director of photography Sean Williams; art director Mary Bronstein; produced by Marc Raybin; released by Frownland Inc. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes. This film is not rated." Mary Wall (Laura) Paul Grimstad (Charles) David Sandholm (Sandy) Carmine Marino (Carmine) and Paul Grant (Exam-Man)." “Frownland” wears its influences on its grubby mucous-smeared sleeve. In an interview Mr. Bronstein has invoked the British filmmaker Mike Leigh as an inspiration though you can also see traces here of John Cassavetes the avant-garde filmmaker George Kuchar and Barbara Loden’s 1971 “Wanda ” an expressionistic portrait of a drifting soul. Like any number of young filmmakers Mr. Bronstein certainly has a thing for 1970s American cinema. Yet to position “Frownland” as merely a period pastiche or mannerist exercise would be to miss its filmmaker’s commitment to the here and the now of this solitary life one below the radar and seized by rage sorrow and bleating humor but a life nonetheless." his thinning hair having already begun its slow march away from his forehead his tongue jutting in and out of his mouth like an anxious animal Mr. Mann presents a compellingly real if unappetizing vision of late-20s masculinity.  From some angles he looks uncannily like David Berkowitz as if he were the son of the Son of Sam a resemblance that adds to the unsettling vibe Mr. Bronstein creates with his opening scene which finds Keith watching and laughing at a monster on television. He might as well be looking into a mirror." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07girl.html
” a jubilant documentary about a place where power chords and empowerment go hand in hand." Shane King and Arne Johnson inform but never lecture. Employing an amiably chaotic visual style that includes crude animation and campy postwar hygiene films they record the battle to wrestle girl culture from the hands of Paris and Britney with the enthusiasm of true believers." Ore. 100 delirious 8-to-18-year-olds — many of whom have never touched an instrument — are encouraged to make noise and “take up space.” For one earsplitting consciousness-raising week they form bands and write songs while watchful counselors — volunteer musicians from bands like Sleater-Kinney and Gossip — provide expertise mediate meltdowns and reassure the strugglers." and broken self-esteem repaired." ” says Laura who loves death-metal and worries about finding like-minded band mates. The 8ight-year-old Palace a diminutive diva with a high-decibel vocal style pens lyrics that hint at deeper anxieties." Mr. King; produced by Mr. Johnson; released by Shadow Distribution. In Manhattan at the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is rated PG." ” they comment in the film’s production notes. Funny so did I." Calif.; Chicago; Seattle;  and Portland Ore." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07chow.html
“CJ7” (the title is a reference to the Chinese space program) has an airy widescreen look that counters the privations of Ti and Dicky’s surroundings. Ceding the limelight to his tiny co-star — who dances in it like a pro — and reining in his everything-but-the-kitchen-sink instincts a subdued Mr. Chow devotes his considerable creative energy to small unexpected scenes that showcase his bizarre sense of humor. As father and son bond over a wall of scurrying roaches or Ti stumblingly hits on the gorgeous Miss Yuen (Kitty Zhang) our pleasure derives as much from the moment’s unexpectedness as from the deftness of its execution." Ti discovers a strange green ball that when placed in Dicky’s curious hands transforms into a saucer-eyed creature resembling an ineptly groomed cockapoo. Emitting bleep-bloop noises from a waggling antenna it reveals to Dicky its alien origins and magical powers. In a hilariously inventive sequence the boy envisions using his new friend to dole out a little cosmic justice to his schoolyard tormentors. The violence is as exaggerated — and reversible — as vintage Hanna-Barbera but the C.G.I. delivery is state of the art." “CJ7” is “E.T.” as reimagined by the premier clown of Chinese cinema Stephen Chow. Whether American viewers will respond with the enthusiasm of their Chinese counterparts remains to be seen. What is clear however is that Mr. Chow’s notion of family is decidedly more Addams than Brady." pummeled and otherwise humiliated." an impoverished widower caring for his young son Dicky (the  9-year-old actress Xu Jiao in her debut). By day Ti works long hours on a construction site to pay for Dicky’s elite private school; at night they return to a sweltering cockroach-infested shack  with unreliable electricity. Both suffer constant bullying: Ti’s overbearing boss (Lam Tze Chung) berates him for having ideas above his station while Dicky’s fastidious teacher (Lee Sheung Ching) and snotty schoolmates treat him like a leper." the deliriously cracked “Kung Fu Hustle” — enjoyed by many under-age fans who slipped beneath the inconvenient R rating —  “CJ7” has a brake pedal and Mr. Chow uses it. (At one point he hits it so decisively and so unpredictably that the action will make you gasp.) And though the subtitles  — and some Eastern child-rearing norms — may dismay they shouldn’t pose a problem for the average middle-schooler. Above all the movie has a heart a mind and a gentleness of spirit that parents will welcome while the frequent flights of fancy ensure that no child will be left behind." Stephen Chow (Ti) Kitty Zhang (Miss Yuen) Lee Sheung Ching (Mr. Cao) Fun Min Hun (P.E. Teacher) Huang Lei (Johnny) and Lam Tze Chung (Boss)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Chow Vincent Kok Tsang Kan Cheong Sandy Shaw Lai-King Fung Chih Chiang and Lam Fung; director of photography Poon Hang Sang; edited by Angie Lam; music by Raymond Wong; production designer Oliver Wong; action choreography by Ku Huen Chiu and Yuen Shun Yi; produced by Mr. Chow Chui Po Chu Han San Ping and Mr. Kok; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07snow.html
after all a collector of delicate awkward moments a writer and filmmaker whose affection for eccentricity has always been much more than the usual taste for quirkiness. His first feature “George Washington ” remains a minor miracle: a lyrical evocation of the spirit of childhood with an eye for the accidental beauties and deep peculiarities of place." who is married to her friend Barb (Amy Sedaris). Glenn and Annie have a young daughter Tara (Grace Hudson) who seems to be in mortal danger every time she’s on camera and even — or perhaps especially — when she isn’t." “All the Real Girls” and “Undertow ” Mr. Green has retained just enough of that idiosyncrasy to keep the promise of “George Washington” alive in the minds of his critical admirers. But these movies have also felt uneasily caught between his poetic nonconforming impulses and the requirements of sustaining a career as a midlevel specialty-division auteur. Each one is less special than the one before." her skill and discipline cannot overcome the sense that she is an exotic species transplanted into this grim ecosystem. Hard as she works to convince us otherwise it’s a stretch to believe that a woman with the kind of poised confidence in her own beauty she manifests would wind up with an underachieving mouth breather like Glenn." unadorned style of realism. For one thing somewhat remarkably “Snow Angels” is frequently quite funny — not in a glib or mocking way but in the way that life even at its worst can be. Even in despair and under duress people make jokes say silly things and even laugh." since they are able to suggest ridiculousness without making fun of the characters they are playing. And Mr. Rockwell has a similar gift though Glenn’s self-undermining jokiness — an aspect of the earnest optimism that seems to guarantee eventual failure and disappointment — is more pathetic than amusing." drunkenness swearing and murder." his former baby sitter and now a co-worker at the local Chinese restaurant has split with her husband Glenn (Sam Rockwell) whose erratic embrace of religion seems more like a symptom of his instability than a balm for his tormented soul." Sam Rockwell (Glenn Marchand) Michael Angarano (Arthur Parkinson) Jeannetta Arnette (Louise Parkinson) Griffin Dunne (Don Parkinson) Nicky Katt (Nate Petite) Tom Noonan (Mr. Chervenick) Connor Paolo (Warren Hardesky) Amy Sedaris (Barb Petite) Olivia Thirlby (Lila Raybern) and Grace Hudson (Tara Marchand)." jealousy and fatalism “Snow Angels” feels curiously small and anecdotal and its impact diminishes as it nears its terrible conclusion. Those gunshots at the start portend at least one violent and gruesome death. By the time that happens though the movie has already expired — slowly quietly and given the talents behind it painfully." the air is cold and the people are miserable. (While the film was shot mainly in Nova Scotia the Stewart O’Nan novel on which it is based specifies southwestern Pennsylvania.)" based on the novel by Stewart O’Nan; director of photography Tim Orr; edited by William Anderson; music by David Wingo and Jeff McIlwain; production designer Richard Wright; produced by Dan Lindau Paul Miller Lisa Muskat and Cami Taylor; released by Warner Independent Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." after which we are pulled back to a series of events beginning “weeks earlier.” But even without this framing device it would be hard to mistake the mood of dread defeat and lurking violence." which might have given “Snow Angels” a touch of lurid life. This is not an updated “Peyton Place ” but rather the kind of self-enclosed hard-bitten American place fashionable in American fiction of the 1970s and ’80s and in American independent cinema ever since." tentative romance that springs up between Arthur and a nerdy girl named Lila (Olivia Thirlby who played Juno’s best pal). Mr. Angarano suggests a less frantic Shia LaBeouf and his scenes with Ms. Thirlby (and also with Griffin Dunne who plays his wayward father) are at once believably inarticulate and shyly eloquent. Arthur and Lila seem to dwell in a different movie from their sorry neighbors an adolescent dream that Mr. Green appears to have been more comfortable directing than the sad tale of marital recrimination he must negotiate." humorless though it may be nonetheless derives some power and authenticity from a precise sense of geography class and time. (It is set in 1974.) Mr. Green’s film in contrast unfolds in no recognizable period place or social milieu. Its characters seem unconnected to one another so that their supposedly entwined fates add up to little more than a welter of bad news and a scattering of small comforts." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07marr.html
Pierce Brosnan (Richard Langley) Patricia Clarkson (Pat Allen) and Rachel McAdams (Kay Nesbitt)." platinum-haired beauty cut from the Tippi Hedren-Kim Novak mold who turns heads when she enters a room. But beyond a cheery vivacity Ms. McAdams breathes no inner life into this luscious dish. Nor is there any chemistry between Ms. McAdams and Mr. Cooper who looks almost old enough to be her grandfather." a smoldering sensualist who believes that people marry for sex not lovey-dovey companionship. With her throaty voice which ripples with insinuation and flashing glances which hint at treachery she is as intriguingly enigmatic in “Married Life” as she was in “The Dying Gaul” and “Far From Heaven.”" Richard Langley (Pierce Brosnan) a suave lothario whose mouth begins to water the moment Harry introduces him to Kay. Harry foolishly insists that Richard visit his new lady love in Harry’s rustic country house to cheer her up while he is stuck in the city (presumably New York) or away on a business trip." “Married Life” could almost be taken as a prequel to “Far From Heaven ” Todd Haynes’s politically pointed deconstruction of a Douglas Sirk melodrama. But with Hitchcock replacing Sirk as muse teasing comic mystery substitutes for sudsy melodrama. Beyond examining the age-old battle of the sexes within the confines of a long-term relationship the movie is apolitical." ” a period comedy of manners merged with a suspenseful psychological thriller aspires to be a hybrid of the sort that Alfred Hitchcock polished to perfection in the age of sexual subtext and subterfuge." granite-faced stoics. For all the layers he reveals of Harry his performance feels like a slightly uncomfortable mismatch of actor and role. He is too much a man’s man to play a bumbling fool for love." from shabby postwar gentility toward a sleek modernity. Together the two movies and the television series “Mad Men ” set in 1960 can be looked at as a historical trilogy examining changing American design over a decade." a master trickster who calculated his every move. The sense of being guided through a story by a sure-handed Hollywood magician toward a delightful trick ending is missing. That insecurity of course is what makes “Married Life” contemporary. You can never really go back." he decides that the most humane solution is to kill her. This is the sort of gallows humor that Hitchcock relished drawing out in cruelly amusing cat-and-mouse games not to be taken too seriously. The same is true of “Married Life.” The murder plot is not to be taken any more literally than the lethal games of “Mr. and Mrs. Smith.”" ” the movie set in 1949 stars Chris Cooper and Patricia Clarkson as Harry and Pat Allen a couple whose cozy marriage is suddenly endangered when Harry falls head over heels for Kay Nesbitt (Rachel McAdams) a beautiful much younger war widow who returns his passion." lies and homicidal intent you’re never sure of what your reaction should be. Up to a point the director Ira Sachs (“Forty Shades of Blue”) who wrote the screenplay with Oren Moverman clearly wants it that way." based on the book “Five Roundabouts to Heaven” by John Bingham; director of photography Peter Deming; edited by Affonso Gonçalves; music by Dickon Hinchliffe; production designer Hugo Luczyc-Wyhowski; produced by Mr. Sachs Sidney Kimmel Steve Golin and Jawal Nga; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07guit.html
with English subtitles) by Mr. Garrel Jean-François Goyet and Marc Cholodenko; director of photography Caroline Champetier; music by Faton Cahen; produced by Gérard Vaugeois; released by the Film Desk. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." Lolla (Mireille Perrier) recede from the picture leaving Gerard and Marianne (Johanna Ter Steege) his German lover at the center. Their on-again off-again relationship veers from casual to intense and comes to involve serious heroin abuse. Gerard hitting bottom is rescued by Aline (Brigitte Sy) with whom he has a child though his new respectability does not seem to solve his essential problem." and Gerard and Marianne’s affair —  based on Mr. Garrel’s own involvement with the German singer Nico —  pursues this insight with honesty and rigor." ” a film by Philippe Garrel is a fugue composed in a key of philosophical melancholy. Though its subject is love the movie is less a romance or the story of a breakup than a series of meditations on and analytical explorations of need truth and the passage of time. The dialogue is abstract and cerebral as only French discussions of l’amour can be but Mr. Garrel’s hovering undulating camera movements impart a dimension of sensuality to the endless sometimes inscrutable talk." though it takes a while to find. At first “Guitare ” which was released in France in 1991 and begins a belated and welcome run at Cinema Village today seems to be an Eric Rohmer-like exercise in the calculus of desire. Gerard (Benoit Régent) and Martin (Yann Collette) are good friends who spend a lot of time talking about admiring and perhaps seducing each other’s girlfriends." it is because Mr. Garrel’s narrative method is not to present a series of dramatic incidents but rather to stage the languorous meandering conversations that come in between or happen instead. Fights couplings and confrontations take place for the most part off screen and what we see is a glancing oblique collection of moments happening over months and years in the characters’ lives." “J’Entends Plus la Guitare” pursues its themes with the intuitive freedom of a memoir or a poem rather than conventional narrative logic. Like the ghostly music its title evokes this film’s meanings are both elusive and haunting." with reference to the mutable mysterious nature of love. Or less charitably you could say that Gerard’s problem —  and consequently the problem of any woman foolish or unlucky enough to be mixed up with him —  is that he’s a weak-willed self-centered jerk. Not that the two interpretations are mutually exclusive." Johanna Ter Steege (Marianne) Yann Collette (Martin) Mireille Perrier (Lolla) Brigitte Sy (Aline) and Anouk Grinberg (Adrienne)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07trip.html
Carrie Evans Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio; director of photography Theo van de Sande; edited by Roger Bondelli; music by Edward Shearmur; production designer Ben Barraud; produced by Andrew Gunn; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is rated G." “College Road Trip” trawls for laughs with a chess-playing pig and a bus filled with karaoke-singing Japanese tourists. As James crashes a wedding and storms a sorority house (to rescue Melanie from ...  a pajama party) his obsession with her borders on the disturbing. By the time Donny Osmond and Molly Ephraim show up to play a parent-child combo that’s scarier than the one embodied by Anthony Perkins in “Psycho ” you’ll be wishing that the pig had eaten the screenplay." Martin Lawrence and Raven-Symoné mug their way through “College Road Trip” as if it were a silent movie — which come to think of it would have been a lot less irritating." Raven-Symoné (Melanie) Donny Osmond (Doug) Brenda Song (Nancy) Eshaya Draper (Trey) Kym E. Whitley (Michelle) Arnetia Walker (Grandma Porter) Margo Harshman (Katie) and Molly Ephraim (Wendy)." the movie hangs its feeble plot on James Porter (Mr. Lawrence) a domineering police chief who’d like to see his teenage daughter Melanie (Raven-Symoné) on permanent lockdown. Doting to the point of derangement James has already chosen her college — Northwestern — based on its proximity to home and his smothering attentions. Sensibly Melanie plans to interview at Georgetown; naturally Daddy insists on driving; thankfully the movie’s target audience will be too young to have heard of Freud." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07ten.html
000 B.C.” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has a lot of violence none of it terribly grisly." there is an awful lot of high-toned mumbo-jumbo to sit through. On his journey D’Leh (it’s pronounced “delay ” though most of the time he’s in a pretty big hurry) gathers a multicultural army to oppose the pyramid-building slaveholding empire that has been bothering the more peaceful agrarian and hunter-gatherer tribes. These decadent priests seem like a curious hybrid of the Egyptians in “King of Egypt” and the Maya from “Apocalypto.” To reach them D’Leh travels overland from his home on the Siberian steppes through the jungles of Southeast Asia to the grasslands of Africa. But back then I guess it was all Gondwana so the trip was easier." 000 BC" the old ways seem to be dying out as the Yagahl a tribe of snuffleupagus hunters who favor extensions in their hair and eschew contractions in their speech prepare for their last hunt. In fulfillment of an old prophecy raiders on horseback (“four-legged demons”) arrive to sack the Yagahl encampment and take a bunch of the tribespeople as slaves. Among them is the blue-eyed Evolet (Camilla Belle) whose beloved D’Leh (Steven Strait) sets out with his mentor Tic’Tic (Cliff Curtis) to rescue her." Ueli Steiger; edited by Alexander Berner; music by Mr. Kloser and Thomas Wander; production designer Jean-Vincent Puzos; produced by Michael Wimer Mr. Emmerich and Mark Gordon; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes." 000 BC ” and the more you think about it the more preposterous it seems. If anything time confuses the issue. But it’s best not to think too hard about anything in this sublimely dunderheaded excursion into human prehistory directed by Roland Emmerich from a script he wrote with Harald Kloser who also helped compose using his better ear the musical score." Steven Strait (D’Leh) and Cliff Curtis (Tic’Tic)." ” though not on the same day if you can help it.) In the context of his oeuvre “10 000 BC” might be thought of as a kind of prequel an attempt to imagine human civilization not on the brink of its end but somewhere near its beginning." involving bizarrely costumed humans and computer-generated creatures among them a scary race of flesh-eating swamp ostriches. These reminded me of nothing so much as the angry chicken designed by the stop-action maestro Ray Harryhausen that menaces some castaways in Cy Endfield’s  1961  curio “Mysterious Island.” And at its best —  which may also be to say at its worst —   “10 000 BC” feels like a throwback to an ancient if not exactly prehistoric style of filmmaking. The wooden acting the bad dialogue the extravagantly illogical special effects may well in time look pleasingly cheap and hokey at which point the true entertainment value of the film will at last be realized." ” though nothing in “10 000 BC” approaches the poetry of the scrambling squirrel and his errant acorn in “Ice Age.” Still it is a mercy that the tigers and the other creatures don’t talk. It would be more of a mercy if the human characters especially that narrator observed similar discretion." climactic fight complete with an epic snuffleupagus rampage is decent action-movie fun. And as a history lesson “10 000 BC” has its value. It explains just how we came to be the tolerant peace-loving farmers we are today and why the pyramids were never finished." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07pett.html
and the malice is confined to sidelong remarks. No one is entirely dislikable and as the movie flits from one silly confrontation to the next it doesn’t waste a moment. Just when you worry that the soap bubble is about to burst Paul Englishby’s wonderful swing music kicks in." based on the novel by Winifred Watson; director of photography John de Borman; edited by Barney Pilling; music by Paul Englishby; production designer Sarah Greenwood; produced by Nellie Bellflower and Stephen Garrett; released by Focus Features. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." “Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day”  takes on the trappings of a French farce in which a shocked Guinevere finds herself Delysia’s co-conspirator in deception. Then for the first time in her life Guinevere begins to enjoy herself; she discovers pleasure. Ms. McDormand portrays this metamorphosis from glum stoicism to demure radiance with impressive comic understatement." at Delysia’s expense to be spruced up with a new hairdo and new clothes. As she warms under Delysia’s tutelage a tentative smile illuminates her poker face." the poor but noble Prince Charming to Delysia’s feckless Cinderella is a nightclub pianist who has little to offer her other than his talents as an accompanist. But together he believes they can ascend to the pinnacle of show business." Amy Adams (Delysia) Lee Pace (Michael) Ciaran Hinds (Joe) Shirley Henderson (Edythe) Mark Strong (Nick) and Tom Payne (Phil)." ” a weightless period fairy tale based on the novel by Winifred Watson hasn’t been this intense since the heyday of Jean Arthur. For the next few years until the dew evaporates all Ms. Adams need do to win friends and influence people is weave variations on this archetype: Ms. Arthur filtered through a flightier Julia Roberts with a dollop of Melanie Griffith.  Beneath their wiles Ms. Adams’s princesses are true-blue souls who would sooner die than hurt anyone. They’re just a little ditzy." of course has something do with it. But the charm that emanates from Amy Adams like a perfume in “Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day” is also a natural gift." Delysia Lafosse an American actress and singer clawing her way up the show business ladder in 1939 London may be an amoral sociopathic vixen. But in Ms. Adams’s portrayal she is also an irresistibly endearing creature of moods and whims one who melts the hearts of the possessive egotistical beaus she carelessly juggles while pursuing the leading role in a West End musical. Despite her foibles she is as lovable as Giselle Ms. Adams’s character in last year’s “Enchanted.”" signaling that this whole world is about to crumble under the blitz can’t dampen its giddy spirits." one of her three lovers and the tough oily impresario of a nightclub where she sings.  Another lover Phil (Tom Payne) the pretty-boy son of the producer of the musical in which she hopes to star is in bed with Delysia when Guinevere arrives." Guinevere’s deliverance is conveniently at hand in the person of a dashing lingerie designer Joe (Ciaran Hinds) whose latest collection of elaborate sexy support garments is unveiled at a fancy private department store showing. Here Guinevere is enlisted by Edythe (Shirley Henderson) a snippy socialite as an ally in her romantic pursuit of Joe her sometime fiancé." who knows what “Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day” might have been.  As it stands the movie directed by Bharat Nalluri from a screenplay by David Magee and Simon Beaufoy is an example of how a little nothing of a story can be inflated into a little something of a movie with perfect casting dexterous tonal manipulation and an astute eye and ear for detail." Guinevere Pettigrew (Frances McDormand) is an impecunious strait-laced vicar’s daughter and governess. Desperate for work after being dumped by her employment agency she steals someone else’s assignment for a job as Delysia’s social secretary. As the down-and-out Guinevere Ms. McDormand is almost a dead ringer for Carol Burnett playing her charwoman character." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/07/movies/07bank.html
Mick Coulter; edited by John Gilbert; music by J. Peter Robinson; production designer Gavin Bocquet; produced by Steven Chasman and Charles Roven; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." it fancifully revisits the mysterious whos and speculative hows of a 1971 London vault cleanout on Baker Street labeled the walkie-talkie robbery. (The thieves squawked on the airwaves like crows.) It was headline news and then with a wave of the official wand it was hush-hush. That’s one story anyway." much less what does it all mean (if anything). Stuffed with personalities the fast fast fast story unfolds somewhat like a three-dimensional chess game with the pieces moving among the different levels: on the bottom are Terry and his lads the shaggy-haired Kevin (Stephen Campbell Moore) and the snaggle-toothed Dave (Daniel Mays); in the middle are the designated villains including a charismatic if dubious black-power gadfly Michael X (Peter De Jersey) and the so-called Soho porn king Lew Vogel (David Suchet); and on the very top pulling strings or so they believe are  the security services represented by the well-heeled silky and sneery Tim (Richard Lintern)." Saffron Burrows (Martine Love) Richard Lintern (Tim Everett) Stephen Campbell Moore (Kevin Swain) Daniel Mays (Dave Shilling) Peter Bowles (Miles Urquart) Peter De Jersey (Michael X) and David Suchet (Lew Vogel)." a pulpy femme fatale who’s been sensitively shaded in by Saffron Burrows. A former model this angular melancholic beauty has after making the usual independent rounds — Mike Figgis directed her in his screen adaptation of the Strindberg play “Miss Julie” — slowly and somewhat unexpectedly emerged as an actress to watch. Sadness clings to Ms. Burrows: it hoods her eyes tugs at her mouth and wraps around her like a gossamer shawl. It gives her mystery and like the hints of age edging her face blunts the impact of her beauty making her character more human and emotionally accessible than she might register otherwise." for defense advisory) a form of media self-censorship jointly agreed upon by representatives of the press and the government. In February The Guardian published an article stating that no D Notice had been issued after the heist but the truth is usually beside the point when it comes to this sort of breezy entertainment so it’s hard to care. Far more important is the way Mr. Statham a B-movie action pinup (“The Transporter”) pumps like a piston across the screen and fills out his natty leather coat both of which he does with palpable brute force." the on-screen follies mostly amuse and generally divert. Working off a hot tip a gang of charming lowlifes of varying capabilities and intelligence make like moles tunneling under a women’s handbag store until they hit the larcenous lottery: safe-deposit boxes crammed with sparkling treasures fistfuls of bank notes and delectable smut involving some Very Important Personages. The thieves — led by the bullet-headed looker Jason Statham as Terry — scoop up their ill-gotten  goods and scram. Assorted coppers and villains give chase as do some stiff-lip types in bespoke suits from the British security services." the story carves out a little time for a short detour involving Michael X — also known as Michael de Freitas also known as Michael Abdul Malik — a native of Trinidad   who became a radical-chic figure in London during the late 1960s and early 1970s and years later cannon fodder for the writer V. S. Naipaul who saw him as a fraud. The film’s cartoonish depiction of Michael X doesn’t begin to do justice to the strangeness of his story — he partied with John Lennon and was championed by William S. Burroughs Dick Gregory and Heinrich Böll — though it adds a nicely outré detail to this embroidered fiction. Maybe Mr. Statham can play Mr. Burroughs in the sequel." given that the caper itself is pretty much a yawn. Central to the pleasure of a great heist film is the spectacle of men (rarely women) at work men who through their hard labor their sweat and stratagems — and if they’re in a Jean-Pierre Melville film their honor — defy the law and society. (There’s a reason so many of these movies seem like metaphors for moviemaking.) The walkie-talkie gang by contrast comes across here as more lucky than cunning. They blunder into the heist at times comically which amps the laughs but helps drain what little suspense remains after Mr. Donaldson has whisked his characters through their paces and the ruthlessly efficient editing has nipped at their heels." nasty blowtorch violence." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/05/movies/05blin.html
with English subtitles; director of photography Petr Cikhart; edited by Sebastian Duthy; music by Nitin Sawhney; produced by Sybil Robson Orr; released by Robson Entertainment. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." bigger emotions." at least to Ms. Tenberken — a trailblazer who has used her own blindness as a springboard for adventure and innovation — is that her students receive a comprehensive sensory experience. “The top is not important ” she insists when sickness threatens to derail the expedition and their guides chafe to reach the summit." the film is at its strongest and most complex as humanitarian and competitive goals collide and the raw beauty of the surroundings dwarfs every human ambition." “Blindsight” is one of those documentaries with the power to make you re-examine your entire life — or at least get off the couch." Lucy Walker’s astonishing film follows six blind Tibetan teenagers  as they attempt to scale the 23 000-foot Lhakpa Ri peak on the north side of Mount Everest. Led by Erik Weihenmayer the only blind man to have climbed Everest itself and accompanied by their fearless teacher Sabriye Tenberken the teenagers brave ravines altitude sickness and inclement weather with the kind of fortitude only the shunned possess. When you live in a culture that believes the blind to be either sinners or inhabited by demons a lack of oxygen is not such a big deal." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29jar.html
based on a popular mystery novel by Arnaldur Indridason it is hard not to feel a certain affection for the place. Partly this is because Mr. Kormákur’s fondness for Iceland and its stoical surname-free people is evident from start to finish. His hero in particular a homicide detective named Erlendur (Ingvar E. Sigurdsson) takes on the features of a national paragon. He enjoys  traditional Icelandic cuisine —   “The usual?” a takeout server asks him;  “Yes I’ll have a sheep’s head” is the reply —  and carries himself with a weary dignity that makes most of Ingmar Bergman’s characters seem frivolous by comparison." a tall chain smoker whose salt-and-pepper beard matches his wool snowflake-pattern sweater is without emotion or a sense of humor. He aches at the knowledge that his daughter Eva has stumbled into drug addiction and sexual promiscuity. He teases the most feared criminal in Iceland sarcastically comparing the man who is locked in an isolation cell to Nelson Mandela. Stepping over the body of a homicide victim Erlendur remarks that the crime is “a typical Icelandic murder messy and pointless.”" spits of volcanic rock jutting into a churning sea —  but a fog of damp unhappiness seems to pervade every face and conversation." like the grisly surprises that seem to be buried under every floorboard. “Jar City” is chilly and cerebral but also morbidly and powerfully alive to grossness and physicality. At home one evening Erlendur blithely tears into his customary sheep’s head with his fingers munching an eyeball while he reviews a case file. It’s at once grotesque sensual and strangely tender all words that might equally describe this strange and absorbing movie." Atli Rafn Sigurdarson (Örn) and Elma Lisa Gunnarsdóttir (Gunnur)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Kormákur based on the novel “Mýrin” (“Tainted Blood”) by Arnaldur Indridason; director of photography Bergsteinn Björgúlfsson; edited by Elísabet Ronaldsdóttir; music by Mugison; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated." ” though turns out to be intricate and pointed conjuring a haunting satisfying puzzle out of violence and chaos. The murder of an old man named Holberg opens up a nest of older crimes and brooding secrets. Erlendur finds himself investigating a possible rape  from 30 years before and unraveling a tangled history of police corruption and petty brutality. What it all has to do with Holberg is no more clear to the audience than it is to the detective. But Erlendur’s combination of bluntness and analytical acumen informs Mr. Kormákur’s storytelling technique making “Jar City” an unusually forceful and thought-provoking thriller." from the audience’s point of view involves the connection between Holberg’s killing and the death from a rare genetic disease of a girl in a Reykjavik hospital. In resolving this mystery the film explores the intimate slightly sinister relations among citizens of a homogeneous isolated nation. Police and criminals strangers and enemies all address one another by their first names and seem to swing abruptly from candor to hostility and suspicion." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29vive.html
a cynical cab driver longs to be free of the responsibility of caring for her Italian father and wayward younger sister Antonietta (Kim Schnitzer). Antonietta for her part dreams of escaping the boredom and confinement of their suburban German home in Cologne while the middle-aged stranger Gerlinde (Hannelore Elsner) is fleeing an unsatisfying relationship with her married lesbian lover. All three are bitter lonely and primed for catharsis so on Christmas Eve when Antonietta runs off to join her boyfriend in another city the stage is set for reinvention." with English subtitles) and directed by Angelina Maccarone; director of photography Judith Kaufmann; edited by Bettina Böhler; music by Jakob Hansonis and Hartmut Ewert; production designer Peter Menne; produced by Anita Elsani; released by Regent Releasing and Here! Films. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." “Vivere” is a slight story freighted with serious emotional baggage its raw undercurrents constantly at odds with its fairy-tale sensibility. Stunningly photographed by Judith Kaufmann the glowing urban nightscapes service a narrative packed with unlikely coincidences inconvenient attractions and improbable behavior." or so heartbreaking." ” a moody drama from the German director Angelina Maccarone." Esther Zimmering (Francesca Conchiglia) Kim Schnitzer (Antonietta Conchiglia) Aykut Kayacik (Enrico Conchiglia) Egbert-Jan Weeber (Snickers) and Friederike Wagner (Inge Grewe)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29unfo.html
” in which the  developer persuasively plays  one of the film’s villains is what he had in mind." Lee Daniel; edited by Ms. Dunn and Emily Morris; produced by Jef Sewell Ms. Dunn Douglas Sewell and William Warren; released by Cinema Guild. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. This film is not rated." Laura Dunn might object to the idea that Mr. Bradley is playing the heavy here. She lets this Texas farm boy turned mega-builder have his say which he does engagingly tears periodically glistening  in his eyes. In the early 1980s he initiated an enormous development in southwest Austin — it started at 2 700 acres growing to 4 000    — called the Circle C Ranch. The savings and loan crisis of the late 1980s put a kink in that plan.  Enter Freeport-McMoRan a multinational mining company and developer which sunk its talons into Circle C while also  proposing a second even larger   subdivision  along Barton Creek which runs through one of Austin’s greenbelts." Barton Creek flows into  an aquifer that supplies  Austin’s drinking water and in turn feeds  a much-loved naturally temperate swimming hole.  Freeport’s proposed development — and its millions of dollars in taxpayer-financed sewers water services and highway construction — would have plunked tens of thousands of residents   and their waste at the edge of the creek. Austin locals who know that what goes into the water upstream invariably comes out downstream had another idea. What ensued were bitter at times inspiring generally depressing dust-ups with environmentalists concerned (outraged) citizens and the City of Austin on one side and developers business interests lobbyists state legislators and the new Texas governor George W. Bush on the other." a familiar one too: big business versus little people nature versus culture civilization and its discontents. Working with the cinematographer Lee Daniel (who shot many of the Austinite  Richard Linklater’s films) Ms. Dunn does an estimable job of marshaling a wealth of facts and figures through a seamless profusion of charts talking heads news reports old photographs and beauty shots including numerous aerial images.  (It’s hard not to wonder about the  film’s carbon footprint.) That’s a lot of material and at 93 minutes “The Unforeseen” can only come across as underdeveloped. It doesn’t help  that Ms. Dunn has a penchant for poetic drift — images of sun-dappled flora and folk gurgling water and children — that tends to fuzz up her story and point." there’s also too much Robert Redford one of the film’s executive producers whose misty if brief on-camera musings and celebrity prove distracting. (The other executive producer the Austinite Terrence Malick remains off-screen.) There’s nothing wrong with Mr. Redford and his love of nature.  But there’s something irritatingly softheaded about the generic nostalgia-tinged blandishments that the film finally resorts to — a Wendell Berry poem a grizzled old farmer wielding a sickle  — in place of  truly hard questions and solutions that may effect meaningful change. With the polar ice caps melting I want more  than poetry and blame. I want a plan." in the wake of a spectacular flameout. His story takes up a fair share of time in “The Unforeseen ” a film with a great big subject or rather a handful of great big subjects among them the rights of man the death of nature the water below the air above and all that going going gone green in between.  It’s a political film of sorts with no overt politics despite the on-screen if fleeting presence of Earth First! the  environmental group.  Mostly it’s a slice of depressing regional history and a cautionary tale with global implications. In other words this is a story about inconvenient truths and fighting the good fight against some very bad people." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29pene.html
Edward Vanderman (Simon Woods) goes to the newspapers with a tale of being attacked by a fanged monster but nobody believes him." who is hidden away in the house by her snobbish parents Jessica (Catherine O’Hara) and Franklin (Richard E. Grant) is more adorable than Miss Piggy. Her nose through which runs a carotid artery (thus precluding cosmetic surgery) is well-shaped symmetrical and cutely turned up. Ms. Ricci plays her as a smart hardheaded young woman who stoically accepts her fate. She suffers from an ancient family curse that can be lifted she is told only when she marries a man of equivalent social station. There are no takers." ” a muddled charm-free fairy tale whose title character played by Christina Ricci is a rich girl born with the snout of a pig." snobbery and a paparazzi-infected media register as annoyingly smug. How much better “Penelope” might have been if it were animated with a “Shrek”-worthy heroine who could magically transform." ridiculed for his horror story teams up with Lemon (Peter Dinklage) a tabloid journalist wearing an eye patch to prove her existence. They recruit Max (James McAvoy) a down-and-out aristocrat with gambling debts to court Penelope and photograph her. Max fails to produce a picture but in their brief encounter a spark is struck." desperate to experience the real world eventually runs away from home with a scarf wrapped over her nose and is befriended by Annie a tough-talking bike messenger played by Reese Witherspoon (one of the movie’s producers in a thankless cameo performance). Once Penelope’s identity is discovered she becomes a tabloid celebrity." Michel Amathieu; edited by Jon Gregory;  produced by Reese Witherspoon Scott Steindorff and Jennifer Simpson; released by Summit Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." “Penelope” is a hopeless jumble of visual and linguistic styles. Its Tim Burton-manqué look combines old-fashioned storybook London with a 21st-century cityscape and the characters speak in a welter of accents (British and American and  in between). This is a movie in which even Ms. O’Hara whose twinkling sense of mischief can make almost anything funny is comically stymied." James McAvoy (Johnny/Max) Catherine O’Hara (Jessica Wilhern) Peter Dinklage (Lemon) Richard E. Grant (Franklin Wilhern) Simon Woods (Edward Vanderman) and Reese Witherspoon (Annie)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29men.html
glamorous outlaws fill the void." “City of Men” is a more conventionally structured melodrama. The nihilism of the first movie has been softened enough to suggest that this culture of violence may not be quite so extreme as the earlier movie portrayed. Amid the organized sociopathy in which allegiances are continually shifting and people are literally shooting one another in the back true friendships are perilous but not hopeless undertakings." these teenage gangsters brood about the absence of their own fathers. Ace’s best friend Laranjinha a k a Wallace (Darlan Cunha) who is days short of turning 18 is especially obsessed with his own paternity. As he approaches the numerical demarcation between child and adult when he will need an identification card stating his last name he embarks on a concerted search for his father based on neighborhood rumor." ” the 2002 global hit directed by his longtime collaborator Fernando Meirelles that featured some of the same actors including Mr. Silva and Mr. Cunha playing 11-year-olds. The new movie written by Elena Soárez is spun off from a successful Brazilian television series of the same title that was shown on the Sundance Channel and is available on DVD. (Mr. Meirelles was a creator of the television series and is a producer of the new film.)" a henchman of the charismatic boss of bosses Madrugadão a k a Midnight (Jonathan Haagensen) betrays him and with a new posse occupies his turf on Dead End Hill. Midnight mounts an even larger and deadlier response. Like those in “City of God ” the battle scenes show herds of armed juvenile soldiers swarming like locusts down the steep terraced hills. As the war spreads Ace and Wallace accidentally find themselves on opposite sides." ” a rootin’-tootin’ gangster movie shot in the notoriously lawless shantytowns overlooking the beaches of Rio de Janeiro is also the most subdued. Acerola a k a Ace (Douglas Silva) an 18-year-old still carrying baby fat admits that he is frightened and unprepared to care for his infant son as his wife Cris (Camila Monteiro) leaves to find work in São Paulo. Although Ace loves his little boy he is only a child in a man’s body himself and he begs her not to go. For him to assume full parental responsibility is almost unimaginable." you might say bleeding-heart perspective on this anarchic culture than “City of God.” The first movie offered a startling documentarylike picture of social decay in which the steady influx of drugs and guns over several generations transformed depressed neighborhoods into war zones. As the weaponry grew more deadly the age of the warriors fell and in the movie’s later scenes the opposing forces were child armies mowing one another down with lethal toys." with English subtitles) by Elena Soárez based on a story by Mr. Morelli and Ms. Soárez; director of photography Adriano Goldman; edited by Daniel Rezende; music by Antonio Pinto; art director Rafael Ronconi; produced by Andrea Barata Ribeiro Bel Berlinck Fernando Meirelles and Mr. Morelli; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes." ” directed by Paulo Morelli Ace’s reluctance is more the rule than the exception. In the strutting drug- and gun-infested culture of the favelas young men who sire children aren’t expected to acknowledge them and their tough sullen wives and girlfriends have little choice but to tolerate the situation or leave. That’s just the way it is in a hyper-macho environment with virulent homophobia." Heraldo (Rodrigo Dos  Santos) who served 15 years of a 20-year sentence for murder. The wariness of the father when confronted with the neediness of the son indicates that it is far too late for their bond to become more than superficial. Though probably only in his mid-30s Heraldo exudes an air of defeat. The thrill of youthful armed combat has faded into fatigue and desperation. Twenty years hence Wallace if he survives will probably be just like him." Darlan Cunha (Laranjinha) Jonathan Haagensen (Madrugadão) Rodrigo Dos Santos (Heraldo) Camila Monteiro (Cris) Naima Silva (Camila) Eduardo B R Piranha (Nefasto) Luciano Vidigal (Fiel) and Pedro Henrique (Caju)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29free.html
Nigel Willoughby; edited by Jonathan Morris; music by George Fenton; production designer Fergus Clegg; produced by Rebecca O’Brien; released by IFC Films. Friday  through Thursday  at the BAM Rose Cinemas 30 Lafayette Avenue at Ashland Place Fort Greene Brooklyn as part of BAMcinématek’s “Tribute to IFC Films” series. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. This film is not rated." cinematic and otherwise. Ms. Wareing who appears in nearly every scene working hard and talking fast keeps you closely watching and listening from start to finish. It’s a difficult performance to pull off precisely because Mr. Loach refuses to let the character off the hook no matter how rough her personal times. (She has a troublesome young son and hectoring parents.) Angie’s energy and good looks bring you into the character even as her increasingly desperate increasingly despicable actions push you away. Her sex adds its own complication as does the fact that Rose her comrade in exploitation is black. Capitalism Mr. Loach seems to be saying has only one color: green." which leaves a strange hole in “It’s a Free World ....” The film begins and ends with exploitation but it doesn’t give you much of anything else in between these bracketing scenes. No solutions no hope no exit. The world turns. Money circulates. People work. Mr. Loach and his camera present the wretched and well off speaking in foreign and forked tongues inhabiting grubby campers and handsome flats dying slowly on factory floors and living large in well-lighted rooms. If you didn’t know better and didn’t know Mr. Loach’s leftist politics you might think there’s nothing to be done which makes you wonder why you should bother to do anything including watch this film." who at his best puts a human face on social and political issues (working-class and immigrant rights among others) giving voice to the often voiceless. The problem is that Mr. Loach and his frequent screenwriter Paul Laverty — whose strongest work remains the 2002 drama “Sweet Sixteen” — have a regrettable habit of speaking for their characters rather than through them which undermines their art and politics both. They also seem to believe that the audiences for their films aren’t as politically sophisticated as they are which is the charitable explanation for their tendency to offer lectures rather than words. It’s a tendency that brings to mind the old progressive song “If I Had a Hammer.” Mr. Loach surely does." a pretty young blond Londoner who’s trying to keep it together mainly by taking advantage of other people is a lieutenant in that war. The story which opens and closes in Eastern Europe traces her progression from amorality to immorality from exploited to exploiter as she goes from working in a recruitment agency to running her own small outfit. Along with her friend Rose (Juliet Ellis) she finds foreign workers for employers seeking maximum profits and minimum payouts. Although not unkind — she takes an interest in a family of Iranian refugees — she’s increasingly driven by greed a relentlessness nicely underscored by the urgent camerawork." Juliet Ellis (Rose) Leslaw Zurek (Karol) Joe Siffleet (Jamie) Colin Coughlin (Geoff) and Maggie Hussey (Cathy)." Ken Loach asserts in his latest film with well-practiced disgust and unfortunately little hope. This being a Loach film it’s also a cruel world populated by capitalist tools and fools schemers and dreamers of every stripe accent and ethnicity. In “It’s a Free World ...” it’s the war of all against all yet again this time with fistfuls of filthy pound notes and mouths crammed with speeches and broken promises." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29chic.html
lurching feel. More powerful are the documentary segments interwoven with the recreated trial which bring back not only Mr. Hoffman Jerry Rubin and the other media stars of antiwar militancy but also their principal antagonist Mayor Richard J. Daley with his flat Midwestern vowels and epic jowls." ” Abbie Hoffman observes. Mr. Morgen certainly grasps this aspect of both the demonstrations and the trial that followed and he captures the cross-pollination of political activism and celebrity culture that made stars out of Mr. Rubin Mr. Hoffman and their co-defendant the Black Panther leader Bobby Seale (voiced by Jeffrey Wright). (At the time they were known as the Chicago Eight. Mr. Morgen adds their lawyers William Kunstler and Leonard Weinglass to arrive at the title of the film.)" ” Brett Morgen’s semi-animated semi-documentary attempt to make the ’60s cool for a new generation of kids does the opposite. It is a narrow glib dollop of canned history an affirmation of received thinking rather than a challenge to it. Squandering 40 years of hindsight Mr. Morgen is content to trot out the tired mythology of the era one more time. His mélange of styles and techniques shows visual ingenuity but not much in the way of historical insight. He takes the intricate frequently self-contradictory theater of the New Left at face value and panders to the credulity of the audience by breathing new life into old clichés. Groovy! Power to the people!" Mark Ruffalo (Jerry Rubin) Jeffrey Wright (Bobby Seale) Dylan Baker (David Dellinger) Liev Schreiber (William Kunstler) Nick Nolte (Thomas Foran) and Roy Scheider (Judge Julius Hoffman)." ” you can catch a soupçon of the era’s dominant moods: there is the rage both of inflamed youth and of the affronted forces of law and tradition; there is the heady mixture of political grievance and newfound freedom; and there is panic and exhilaration once things start getting ugly." ” mainly about the conspiracy charges brought against prominent radicals in the wake of the disturbances. Those are all in their way partisan documents broadly sympathetic to the cause of rebels in the streets but they also allow the reader or viewer to glimpse a larger context of political crisis and cultural transformation." but it is far from clear that their cause benefited. Nixon won his narrow victory partly because the electorate was unnerved by the specter of chaos in the streets and also because many on the left abandoned Humphrey. The joyous prankish spirit evident among the protesters turned sour and nihilistic; the “festival of life” envisioned in 1968 gave way a year later to Days of Rage." Yowza Animation and Asterisk; edited by Stuart Levy; music by Jeff Dana; produced by Mr. Morgen and Graydon Carter; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 43 minutes." “The whole world is watching ” and so it was. Images of blue-helmeted officers and their long-haired antagonists have been part of the collective memory ever since." including tunes by Eminem and the Beastie Boys seems like a bid for contemporary relevance as does the use of animated renderings of the conspiracy trial complete with voice-overs by famous actors. The script adapted from official transcripts of the conspiracy trial is full of found absurdity and unlikely profundity. It is fun to hear Hank Azaria doing Abbie Hoffman Nick Nolte growling as the lead prosecutor and Roy Scheider in one of his last film roles impersonating Judge Julius Hoffman no relative of Abbie’s." and the arguments about it are far from over. “Chicago 10” will not be much use in any of them. If you really want to know what the ’60s were about you’ll do better to look elsewhere." what it felt like and what it all seemed to mean were produced while the smell of tear gas still hung over Michigan Avenue. The nostalgic or the curious can seek out Norman Mailer’s “Miami and the Siege of Chicago ” for example which analyzed events inside and beyond the convention hall with its author’s characteristic and in this case perfectly appropriate blend of intellectual grandiosity and journalistic acumen." or indeed to engage any sense of history beyond the superficialities of rhetoric and image. Here’s a small quiz: Who did the Democrats nominate in 1968? What candidates opposed him? Which Republican did he face in the general election? Who won? Anyone who doesn’t know the answers will not learn them from “Chicago 10 ” a movie about 1968 in which Hubert Humphrey Richard Nixon and Robert F. Kennedy are never mentioned and Eugene McCarthy’s name is heard only in passing." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29chen.html
Pemon (Fred Koehler). When not selling bait or fending off his alcoholic father Beaux is recklessly bedding his ex-girlfriend Marie-Louise (Tamara Braun) a straggle-haired waif who is married to the slimy deputy sheriff (Jeremy Davidson). Pemon meanwhile is obsessed with losing his virginity and may be killing cattle as an interim diversion." and women are no end of sorry in “Little Chenier ” a steamy saga of jealousy and revenge set on a waterlogged spit of Louisiana land — the kind of place where strangers are greeted with “Who your daddy? ” and the sheriff is up in everybody’s business." Fred Koehler (Pemon Dupuis) Tamara Braun (Marie-Louise Lebauve) Clifton Collins Jr. (T-Boy Trahan) Chris Mulkey (Sheriff Kline Lebauve) and Jeremy Davidson (Carl Lebauve)." gators wrastled and ladies of dubious virtue hired." based on a story by Mr. Johnson; director of photography Tanya Koop; edited by Brian Anton; music by Michael Picton; production designer C. J. Strawn; produced by Ms. Wolf Ron West Mr. Johnson and Gavin Boyd; released by Radio London Films. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." “Little Chenier” is an overripe soap in which brooding and sweating substitute for energy and structure. Slipping in and out of Cajun dialect (helpfully subtitled) the movie may boast regional authenticity — and the poignancy of a location devastated by Hurricane Rita just weeks after filming ended in 2005 — but that doesn’t excuse the death-march pacing and Southern Gothic performances. Sadly the most interesting thing about “Little Chenier” may be its revelation that when it comes to purchasing female company $20 goes a very long way." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29bonn.html
Carol and Margene (Joan Allen and Kathy Bates) hit the road in Idaho in a 1966 Pontiac convertible to deliver an urn full of ashes to a funeral in Santa Barbara Calif. bickering bonding and facing hard truths along the way." Kathy Bates (Margene Cunningham) Joan Allen (Carol Brimm) Christine Baranski (Francine Holden Packard) Victor Rasuk (Bo) Tom Amandes (Bill Packard) Tom Wopat (Arlo Brimm) and Tom Skerritt (Emmett L. Johnson)." we sense that none of the travelers would seriously consider having one. When the women sit in a diner watching the shirtless hitchhiker wash their car in the parking lot they’re just window-shopping. We learn the source of their restraint when Bo and the ladies part ways and Carol offers him a parting gift: her copy of the Book of Mormon." even excitement to moments that would seem dull or awkward in a Hollywood road movie. When Margene says she and Emmett went dancing Ms. Bates’s incredulous delighted tone makes the act sound as reckless as a one-night stand. When Carol offers Bo her Book of Mormon he politely declines because it’s clearly a keepsake and because he already has two." Carol Margene Arvilla and many other major characters are devout members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The film’s screenwriter Daniel D. Davis and its director Christopher N. Rowley treat their characters’ faith as a given — as merely one characteristic among many. It’s the Mormon flip side of a typical Hollywood movie set in a world in which no one ever mentions God prays or enters a house of worship. The movie’s no-fuss treatment of religion is as deft as it is unexpected." expressive close-ups which render flashbacks unnecessary the women’s journey is aesthetically and dramatically unremarkable. The three pass through spectacular terrain cross paths with a charming trucker named Emmett (the silver fox Tom Skerritt) who joins them for dinner in Las Vegas and visit a casino floor where Carol obliviously chats with a young female slot-machine player waiting on a client who pays by the hour." based on a story by Mr. Davis and Mr. Rowley; director of photography Jeffrey L. Kimball; edited by Lisa Fruchtman and Anita Brandt Burgoyne; music by Jeff Cardoni; production designer Christopher R. DeMuri; produced by Robert May and John Kilker; released by SenArt Films. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." because the film has many tiresome elements — starting with Arvilla’s brittle antagonist Francine (Christine Baranski) her dead husband Joe’s daughter by his first wife. Because Joe never amended his will Francine who always disliked her stepmother is set to inherit the couple’s longtime home. She gives Arvilla an ultimatum: Deliver Joe’s ashes to Santa Barbara for burial next to his first wife or pack and get out. Despite Ms. Baranski’s sharp performance and a few last-minute nuances Francine remains a resentful killjoy." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29beli.html
and stray quotations from Afghan widows suggest that some Afghans don’t know about Al Qaeda and the Taliban’s connection to 9/11 or choose not to believe it." Ms. Murphy hangs back privileging no political viewpoint but respecting the emotions of all who pass before her lens — particularly Ms. Retik and Ms. Quigley who were both pregnant when their husbands David Retik and Patrick Quigley died and who still struggle to maintain their composure when reminiscing about them." 9/11 widows from suburban Boston as they try to raise money to help war widows in Afghanistan." Ms. Retik and Ms. Quigley embarked on a fund-raising bike ride from ground zero to Boston just before the third anniversary of 9/11 then followed up by visiting Afghanistan: a trip that affirmed their empathy for Afghan war widows and revealed the enormity of the economic gap between their country and ours." Kevin Belli and Sean Flynn; edited by Mr. Belli and Ms. Murphy; music by Evren Celimli; released by the Film Sales Company. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated." raising Afghan families’ standard of living might reduce the possibility of future attacks." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29semi.html
of course. The A.B.A. never had a team in Flint much less an owner-coach-player who wrestled grizzlies and promised every spectator a free hot dog if his team broke 125 points. But the film does root many of its jokes in sports history. The A.B.A.’s contributions to pro basketball include the slam-dunk contest the three-point shot and Julius Erving nicknamed Dr. J who played for two A.B.A. teams the New York Nets and the Virginia Squires. In its absurdist way “Semi-Pro” alludes to all of the above — including Dr. J. who seems a partial inspiration for Mr. Benjamin’s character." Shane Hurlbut; edited by Debra Neil-Fischer and Peter Teschner; music by Theodore Shapiro; production designer Clayton Hartley; produced by Jimmy Miller; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." ” a comedy starring Will Ferrell as Jackie Moon the owner coach promoter and star of a struggling 1970s-era basketball team boils Mr. Ferrell’s macho man-child persona down to a sentence." Woody Harrelson (Monix) André Benjamin (Clarence) Maura Tierney (Lynn) Will Arnett (Lou Redwood) Andy Richter (Bobby Dee) David Koechner (Commissioner) Rob Corddry (Kyle) Andrew Daly (Dick Pepperfield) and Jackie Earle Haley (Dukes)." ” “Semi-Pro” pictures the ’70s as a clown’s bacchanal an era that saw Age of Aquarius utopianism morph into decadent brutishness. (Jackie an exemplar of both extremes slaps his players and threatens referees with death yet insists that his motto is “E.L.E.: Everybody Love Everybody.”) Between its Me Decade jukebox soundtrack sinuous widescreen photography (by Shane Hurlbut) and fetishistic period details (including the most stunning array of big hair this side of a Tower of Power album cover) “Semi-Pro” often plays like a wacky sports-themed cousin of Paul Thomas Anderson’s “Boogie Nights.”" a one-hit-wonder pop star turned sports impresario is a standard-issue Ferrell type: an alpha-male doofus leading like-minded dudes (including Woody Harrelson as a former bench-warming Boston Celtic and André Benjamin as a selfish but talented future star) on a mission of excellence. For the Tropics that means standing out during the final season of the American Basketball Association a down-market rival of the National Basketball Association which   merged with the N.B.A. in 1976 with only a few teams joining the fold. If Jackie’s team doesn’t finish at least fourth in the league and draw 2 000 spectators a game it won’t survive the merger. Desperation and inspiration ensue." it offers lively performances (including Will Arnett’s  foulmouthed alcoholic chain-smoking sportscaster and Andrew Daly as his unflappably square partner)." a raunchy R-rated goof written by Scot Armstrong and directed by Kent Alterman isn’t as tenderhearted as Mr. Ferrell’s “Elf ” nor does it hit the surreal peaks of “Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy ” with its jazz flute solos and gang fights between news teams. But like many of Mr. Ferrell’s recent films “Semi-Pro” finds the sweet spot between sports melodrama and parody and hammers it for 90 diverting minutes." the Tropics from Flint Mich. the camera pans across cheerleaders at the base of a 100-foot ramp then reveals Jackie at the top in roller skates and a helmet steeling himself for an Evel Knievel-style jump. A courtside announcer declares “The fact that Jackie has never been on roller skates before has apparently done nothing to diminish his confidence.”" Monix setting up a tryst with his ex-girlfriend Lynn (Maura Tierney) by dispatching her boyfriend an obsessive Monix fan named Kyle (Rob Corddry) to buy him a tube of Bengay. The poor dope forgets his wallet returns to the house and catches the couple in the act but does not react as you would expect. In fact his response takes sports fandom to a whole new level." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/29/movies/29bole.html
not the stake but that’s jumping ahead of this story and its galloping horses bustling  gowns and rampaging royals. It’s a marvel that something that feels so inert should have so much frenetic action. Shot in high-definition video with a murky brown palette (perhaps to suggest tea-stained porcelain and teeth) the film is both underwritten and overedited. Many of the scenes seem to have been whittled down to the nub which at times turns it into a succession of wordless gestures and poses. Given the generally risible dialogue this isn’t a bad thing despite Mr. Morgan’s previous credits (notably “The Queen”). Ms. Portman’s eyes Mr. Bana’s hands and Ms. Johansson’s chin all receive vigorous workouts." Scarlett Johansson (Mary Boleyn) Eric Bana (Henry VIII) Kristin Scott Thomas (Lady Elizabeth Boleyn) Mark Rylance (Thomas Boleyn) David Morrissey (Duke of Norfolk) Jim Sturgess (George Boleyn) and Ana Torrent (Catherine of Aragon)." based on the novel by Philippa Gregory; director of photography Kieran McGuigan; edited by Paul Knight and Carol Littleton; music by Paul Cantelon; production designer John-Paul Kelly; produced by Alison Owen; released by Columbia Pictures and Focus Features. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes." directed by Justin Chadwick — the girls were more or less the Paris and Nicky Hilton of the Tudor court. In the film’s version of the Boleyn family saga based on the novel by Philippa Gregory of the same title they were pimped out by their scheming ambitious father Sir Thomas (a spidery Mark Rylance) who sought to advance the family on the backs of his daughters while Mrs. Sir Thomas  (Kristin Scott Thomas) clucked darkly from the sidelines. Forced to compete for kingly favors the women were soon rivals a contest that in its few meagerly entertaining moments recalls the sisterly love in “What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?”" rolling heads." “The Other Boleyn Girl” tells the salacious story of two hot blue bloods who ran amok and partly unclothed in the court of Henry VIII. Best known for losing her head to the king first metaphorically then literally Anne Boleyn (Natalie Portman saucy) along with her sister Mary (Scarlett Johansson sedate) entered the court of the king (Eric Bana brooding and glowering) when he was still wed to Catherine  of Aragon (Ana Torrent). A man of considerable and changeable appetites the king yearned for a male heir and anything in a frock who wasn’t the queen. His sexual wish was their command." but history tells a juicier story. One of Anne’s biographers Joanna Denny writes that while at the French court Mary got around (she was “passed on from man to man”) which I don’t remember from high school or public television. Instead of letting the story rip though the film plays it safe and predictable by dividing the sisters into the bad brunette and gentle blonde thereby displacing the courtly intrigue onto two warring women. The Boleyn sisters were the kind of trouble that can make for bodice-ripping entertainment but they were also the kind of unruly women who sometimes risked burning." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/27/movies/27chop.html
the life of Alejandro (Alejandro Polanco)  — known as Ale     — should be cause for despair. A skinny fast-moving boy a year or so  from puberty he sleeps in a makeshift room above the shop where he works. His main concern aside from the daily scramble  for cash is his older sister Isamar (Isamar Gonzales) who seems more passive than her brother and more detached perhaps self-protectively from her emotions. Their parents are never seen or mentioned and school is more an abstract notion than a real possibility." it takes a moment to register as a metaphor. For nearly an hour and a half we have been immersed in the rhythms of daily life in the battered Willets Point section of Queens and Mr. Bahrani’s hand-held camera has remained studiously fixed at street level. Now all of a sudden it pitches upward to follow a flock of pigeons breaking toward the sky a shift in perspective that also changes subtly but unmistakably our understanding of the movie." and they feel very little for themselves. Perhaps this is because they are too young and too focused on the present-tense demands of getting by to dwell on what they don’t have. But the film’s emotional restraint while impressive also feels limiting. Mr. Polanco and Ms. Gonzales have the wary inscrutability that often characterizes nonprofessional actors and though Mr. Polanco is a lively and likable presence there are times when his performance is tentative and stiff." but also about the total absence of any adult or institutional concern with these children’s lives. The shop owners pay Ale his wages and teach him new skills but there is a hardness in their dealings with him that struck me as implausible. That may be wishful thinking on my part. Or it may be that I was taken in by the rough surface of this film seduced into mistaking a subtle artful fable for the cold hard facts of life." Michael Simmonds; production designer Richard Wright; produced by Lisa Muskat Marc Turtletaub and Jeb Brody; released by Koch Lorber Films. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." or like those homely birds “Chop Shop ” written by Mr. Bahrani and Bahareh Azimi dwells mainly in the realm of the literal. Filmed inside shady auto-repair businesses on bleak overpasses and in vacant lots in the shadow of Shea Stadium this film like Mr. Bahrani’s  2006 feature “Man Push Cart ”  is concerned principally with the kind of hard marginal labor that more comfortable city dwellers rarely notice. But there is nonetheless a lyricism at its heart an unsentimental soulful appreciation of the grace that resides in even the meanest struggle for survival." his parents’ native country (and Ms. Azimi’s) and the influence of recent Iranian cinema on “Chop Shop” is unmistakable. The oblique naturalistic storytelling the interest in children and the mingling of documentary and fictional techniques — these have been hallmarks of the work of Abbas Kiarostami and Jafar Panahi but they are rarely deployed  with such confidence or effectiveness by American filmmakers. “Chop Shop” suggests the potential of such an approach which has roots in postwar Italian Neo-realism to compel an encounter with local reality that is both poetic and clearsighted." equally a childish fantasy and a hard-headed entrepreneurial scheme is to save enough money to buy a broken-down vending truck and fix it up so he and Isamar can sell hot meals to chop shop workers and customers. Isamar works in a similar business and also sells sex after-hours  to drivers who park at the edge of the neighborhood. Ale’s desire all the more acute for remaining unstated is to rescue her from this fate and also more generally to formulate the plausible idea of a secure adult future for the two of them." Isamar Gonzales (Isamar) Carlos Zapata (Carlos) Ahmad Razvi (Ahmad) and Rob Sowulski (Rob)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/23/movies/23witl.html
” the third feature film starring Larry the Cable Guy finds this comedian’s recurring character Larry here a small-town deputy fantasizing about becoming an F.B.I. agent. He plays out his hero fantasies by rescuing a sultry trial witness named Madeleine (Ivana Milicevic her arrival heralded by hubba-hubba sax music) from the custody of F.B.I. agents who Larry believes are working for the rich crook Madeleine is supposed to testify against in a tax fraud case." with Larry seesawing between lucid insights (he knows exactly which parts of the F.B.I. handbook the suspect agents are ignoring) and third-grade lunchroom witticisms. (“You’re insane!” “No ma’am I’m Larry.”)" some violence and sexual innuendo." the leader of the F.B.I. agents played by Yaphet Kotto is Alonzo Moseley the same straight-arrow African-American F.B.I. man that actor played in the 1988 film “Midnight Run.” Unfortunately Mr. Kotto is given nothing to do but snarl sputter and serve as the butt of casually racist jokes." Charles Robert Carner is working on a critic-proof franchise and knows it; the slapstick and action set pieces are lame and its performances range from competent to annoying. As the chief bad guy Peter Stormare wolfs down acres of scenery; Joe Mantegna who has a small role as Larry’s brother-in-law a scuzzball doctor gnaws what’s left." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/22/movies/22duch.html
almost offhand grace that nonetheless directs our attention to Armand a physically awkward at times even lurching presence whose dark clothes and mien seem at odds with the glaring Mediterranean light and pale stone church. With his tangle of greasy dark blond hair the scar that creases the side of his face and his heavy limp Armand cuts an untamed (Balzac uses the word leonine) if also obviously fragile figure the hero who at times literally stumbles. (Mr. Depardieu lost his right leg after a motorcycle accident several years ago.) Yet when he violently pounds his cane against the floor of the church you also see the fury in this man." with English subtitles) by Pascal Bonitzer and Christine Laurent based on the novel by Honoré de Balzac; director of photography William Lubtchansky; edited by Nicole Lubtchansky; music by Pierre Allio; produced by Pierre Grise Productions; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 2 hours 17 minutes. This film is not rated." true profound. Based on Balzac’s 1834 short novel and set against the French Restoration — Napoleon is in exile and a Bourbon king again sits on the throne — it traces how a passionate affair of the heart curdles into cruelty and obsession. Originally titled “Don’t Touch the Ax” (a threat guaranteed to make noble necks twitch) it is a story about manners language power and society and the bodies caught in their grip. “Life ” one character observes “is simply a complication of interests and feelings.” Art too." Guillaume Depardieu (Armand de Montriveau) Bulle Ogier (Princesse de Blamont-Chauvry) Michel Piccoli (Vidame de Pamiers) Barbet Schroeder (le Duc de Grandlieu) and Anne Cantineau (Clara de Serizy)." or at least tries to using the manners bequeathed to her by birth and society and it’s this deception that turns romance into tragedy. Nearly 40 Ms. Balibar is almost two decades older than Balzac’s character but the age difference only underscores her vulnerability. An eccentric beauty who has worked with Mr. Rivette before including in “Va Savoir” (in which she memorably pokes her head through a Paris rooftop window) Ms. Balibar delivers a physical performance in this film that’s close to the bone. I mean this quite literally. Alarmingly thin with translucent skin she quivers like a bird caught in a hand her neck tendons straining the whites in her startling eyes shining her body expressing what her words cannot." Pascal Bonitzer and Christine Laurent’s screenplay — an austere scrupulously faithful and in the film’s devastating close improved-upon adaptation —  opens in 1823 on a wind-swept Mediterranean island. There in a church fixed on a foundation of rock and faith Armand finds Antoinette tucked inside an order of barefoot Carmelites who know her only as Sister Theresa. Five years earlier she had disappeared from Paris a departure (or an escape) that deepened his ardor. Now inside the church where bars separate the religious and the secular like the free and the condemned (who is who?) he confronts her. But when she cries out to another nun that Armand is her lover a heavy curtain falls between them putting an end to Act I." they are which is very much to the point of a story characterized by seemingly oppositional terms like speech and action love and hate women and men. In brief outline it concerns a Napoleonic hero Gen. Armand de Montriveau stiffly if touchingly played by Guillaume Depardieu and a married Parisian with whom he becomes infatuated the Duchess of Langeais given strange pathos and trembling vibrancy by Jeanne Balibar. The duchess known to her intimates as Antoinette (perhaps in echo of another unfortunate French woman) meets the general at a ball where etiquette reigns supreme and serves as a mask for the intrigues of a hopelessly corrupt society." Antoinette embodies the qualities and the flaws of the “aristocratic caste” to which she belongs. She pounces on Armand spying him at a dance and begins a dangerous game of cat and mouse not knowing that she and her prey will eventually switch roles. Mr. Rivette seems more kindly disposed toward her as evidenced by the subtle interplay between the tonally different leads. An actor in angry lockdown Mr. Depardieu doesn’t bring you into his character’s anguish as does Ms. Balibar. But Mr. Rivette is not one for wallowing inside the psychology of his characters anyway. Much is often made of his abiding interest  in the theatrical — certainly in evidence here — but this doesn’t preclude an interest in life. It deepens it. When he drops the curtain it falls like an ax." they briefly shift the storytelling into its original idiom. The story continues just differently. Mr. Rivette doesn’t obscure the tension that is at the  heart of every literary adaptation the struggle between word and image; he makes cunning use of it. If anything the intertitles  build tension because they take you away from the increasingly feverish melodrama that Antoinette and Armand — amid heaving bosoms fluttering hands stolen kisses silent servants murmured declarations and careful choreography — begin to play soon after they meet. Much like his lovely heroine Mr. Rivette is something of a tease though finally better practiced at the art of deception perhaps because he does not hide behind his style." you are quickly reminded as the story shifts five years into the past is also a warrior and this is among other things the story of a campaign though one fought inside a boudoir instead of a battlefield. It’s a campaign that Mr. Rivette presents coolly with a kind of detachment that borders on indifference and proves anything but. Part of that coolness is due to some of his nominal distancing devices specifically the occasional intertitles that quote from the novel and remind you of both  the story’s literary provenance and its cinematic translation. When Jean-Luc Godard throws down text in one of his films it can feel like a smack in the head. Mr. Rivette has a gentler if no less purposeful touch." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/22/movies/22sign.html
bloody violence throughout pervasive language and brief nudity." a fictional city whose citizens are being driven to rage by a mysterious signal that jams  televisions and phones." its reluctance to clearly delineate why and how the signal affects people starts to seem less like a poetic conceit than a cheat." directed photographed and edited by David Bruckner Dan Bush and Jacob Gentry; music by Ben Lovett; produced by Alexander A. Motlagh and Mr. Gentry; released by Magnet Releasing. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes." Justin Welborn (Ben Capstone) Anessa Ramsey (Mya Denton) Scott Poythress (Clark) Sahr Ngaujah (Rod) Cheri Christian (Anna) and Chad McKnight (Jim Parsons)." directed by Jacob Gentry finds a now-raging Lewis associating with some equally unhinged apartment dwellers in a warped facsimile of domestic life; it aims for George Romero-style ghastly humor but it’s more grating than funny. Part  3 directed by Dan Bush finds Lewis and Ben fighting to possess Mya and reignites the apocalyptic mood of Part  1. It adds a splash of tragic love but its preference for gore over feeling becomes monotonous." directed by David Bruckner follows an adulterous wife Mya (Anessa Ramsey) as she leaves her lover Ben (Justin Welborn) and returns to her jealous husband Lewis (A. J. Bowen) on the night the signal turns her apartment building into a charnel house. This section is superb with affecting performances a sense of dread reminiscent of John Carpenter’s “Prince of Darkness” and many striking images (Mya blasting music on her headphones to shut out the chaos; a murder reflected in a car’s side mirror)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/22/movies/22cove.html
his steamy boss (Paula Jai Parker) and a couple of old college buddies (Roger Guenveur Smith and Leon) who apparently majored in hound dog. No wonder she escapes to the comfort of the Women’s Faith Fellowship where the general worthlessness of men is always on the agenda." Raz Adoti (Dutch Maas) Leon (Ryan Chambers) Louis Gossett Jr. (Detective Hicks) Paula Jai Parker (Monica Wilson) Vivica A. Fox (Zahara Milton) Roger Guenveur Smith (Kevin Wilson) Mya Harrison (Cynda) and Patti LaBelle (Mrs. Persons)." based on a screenplay by Aliya Jackson; director of photography Francis Kenny; edited by Cari Coughlin; music by Kurt Farquhar; production designer Jesse Rosenthal; produced by Corey Redmond Warren Kohler and Mr. Duke; released by American Cinema International. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." “Cover” introduces us to Valerie Maas (Aunjanue Ellis) a photographer and saintly homemaker suspected of murder. “I’m innocent ” she protests while a solitary light plays across her face like Noir 101. “I’m a Christian.” Tell that to a detective who isn’t played by someone as old as Louis Gossett Jr." the hotel room of sin — the director Bill Duke presents a buppie Eden corrupted not by money but by homosexuality. Within its borders well-heeled husbands frolicking on the down low isn’t just a problem it’s an epidemic. The sledgehammer message is clear: Best friends can help when you need a McMansion but only God can help when your husband needs a man." one woman on drugs and no reason to care." ” a ham-fisted morality tale eager to prove that infidelity may be bad but playing with a member of one’s own team is infinitely worse." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/22/movies/22coun.html
looking back on his time in Auschwitz observed that in the Nazi death camps “the worst that is the fittest survived.” “The Counterfeiters ” a brisk tough new movie from the Austrian director Stefan Ruzowitzky is in some ways an illustration of this axiom. Like most films about the Holocaust it is a survivor’s tale and its protagonist at least at first seems long on guile and short on scruple. He is Salomon Sorowitsch a master forger and a fixture of the Berlin underworld and his yellow star is overlaid with a green triangle marking his status as a “habitual criminal.”" with English subtitles) by Mr. Ruzowitzky based on the book “The Devil’s Workshop” by Adolf Burger; director of photography Benedict Neuenfels; edited by Britta Nahler; music by Marius Ruhland; produced by Josef Aichholzer Nina Bohlmann and Babette Schröder; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." whose wide brow and upright carriage stand in pronounced contrast to Sorowitsch’s darting eyes and spidery movements is the film’s designated man of principle. A left-wing activist he was imprisoned for printing anti-Nazi leaflets and he struggles to maintain a clear view of the political implications of his and the others’ actions. He decides to slow down Operation Bernhard by sabotaging the counterfeiting process a delay that threatens the lives of his co-workers and brings him into conflict with Sorowitsch who sometimes seems to view their assignment as a professional challenge more than anything else." August Diehl (Adolf Burger) Devid Striesow (Friedrich Herzog) Dolores Chaplin (the Red-Haired Woman) August Zirner (Dr. Klinger) and Marie Bäumer (Aglaia)." where Sorowitsch is recruited for an unusual work detail. An enterprising Nazi officer who had arrested Sally before the war for falsifying currency enlists him in a scheme to counterfeit British and American money. The plan — based on the real-life Operation Bernhard — is to destabilize the economies of those countries with large-scale infusions of fake pounds and dollars." the cynical jocular Nazi who oversees Bernhard and Burger (August Diehl) an idealistic prisoner who wants to subvert the plan." weekly showers sheets and pillows on their beds. And this fragile good fortune provides “The Counterfeiters” with its ethical center of gravity. The questions Mr. Ruzowitzky poses are both stark and complicated. How much cooperation with evil is justified in the name of survival? How can the imperative to stay alive compete with the obligations to help others and to oppose injustice?" he is also something of an artist and Mr. Markovics without sentimentalizing the character allows us glimpses of his soul. His performance is a tour de force of concentration and understatement and it gives Mr. Ruzowitzky’s sometimes schematic narrative a jolt of realism. “The Counterfeiters” is a swift and suspenseful thriller and perhaps a little too entertaining for its own good. The grim scenes in Sachsenhausen are framed by a visit to postwar Monte Carlo that adds a queasy touch of romanticism to the tale." horrible measure of the subject at the risk of overwhelming or alienating a modern audience or else in trying to make the story bearable they subvert its truth. “The Counterfeiters ” in the manner of its flawed fascinating hero tries in good faith to navigate this ethically treacherous ground. That it succeeds more than it fails owes something to Mr. Ruzowitsky’s skill and good sense and even more to his lead actor’s instinct and conviction." and also some nudity." played by a remarkable hatchet-faced actor with the striking name Karl Markovics approaches these conundrums not with the discipline of a philosopher but rather with the self-protective instincts of an outlaw. He does nonetheless adhere to the rudiments of a thief’s code of honor surveying every new situation for possible risks and advantages and refusing under any circumstances to squeal on a comrade." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/22/movies/22char.html
directed by Jon Poll from a screenplay by Gustin Nash is never more amusingly subversive than in this scene which suggests the hypocrisy of American attitudes toward drugs without putting it in words. The major difference between physician-prescribed “good” drugs like antidepressants and tranquilizers and “bad” drugs like marijuana and cocaine it implies has to do with the sanctification of some by the medical pharmaceutical and legal establishments and the outlawing of others which given their effects seems somewhat arbitrary." Paul Sarossy; edited by Alan Baumgarten; music by Christophe Beck; production designer Tamara Deverell; produced by David Permut Barron Kidd Jay Roach and Sidney Kimmel; released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures and Sidney Kimmel Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." strong language and mild violence." Charlie understands that he is his mother’s emotional caretaker and lifeline to whatever stability she can muster. Barely touched on is Charlie’s estrangement from his father in prison for tax evasion." Hope Davis (Marilyn Bartlett) Kat Dennings (Susan Gardner) Robert Downey Jr. (Principal Gardner) Tyler Hilton (Murphy Bivens) Mark Rendall (Kip Crombwell) Dylan Taylor (Len Arbuckle) Megan Park (Whitney Drummond) Jake Epstein (Dustin Lauderbach) and Jonathan Malen (Jordan Sunder)." Susan (Kat Dennings). It worsens when partly at Charlie’s instigation organized protest against the surveillance erupts into a riot. Mr. Downey bravely attempts to bring some depth and compassion to the principal. But as the movie dashes from one base to the next it never coalesces into the character-driven serious comedy with heart that you want it be." ” the Russian-born actor Anton Yelchin has seemed destined to step into the shoes of Hollywood’s favorite quiz kid Matthew Broderick. And in the precociously articulate title character of “Charlie Bartlett ” he may have found a contemporary equivalent of Mr. Broderick’s beloved hooky-playing high school trickster Ferris Bueller." Charlie wins friends and influences people only after he hits on the notion of becoming the student drug dealer. But not the usual kind. Instead of pot cocaine and speed he dispenses a pharmacy’s worth of prescription drugs like Ritalin Xanax and Prozac obtained by studying physicians’ reference books then visiting psychiatrists and feigning symptoms the doctors are only too quick to treat with the latest medications." Charlie and his business partner Murphy the school bully who beat him up and dunked his head in the toilet when he first arrived dispense Ritalin to the students and turn a dance into a frenzied free-for-all with bare-breasted girls running down the halls." faintly whiny tone and deliberate cadences of an honor student tossing off a difficult oral exam.  Even under stress he exhibits the composure of a smarty-pants who beneath his lost-boy affectations is inordinately pleased with himself. In spite of your qualms you root for him." depressed mother Marilyn (Hope Davis who also played the mother of Mr. Yelchin’s character in “Hearts in Atlantis”) with whom he sits at the piano singing old television theme songs. As Charlie’s troubles escalate it dawns on Marilyn that perhaps she shouldn’t have treated him as an adult all his life. Ms. Davis plays her with an off-center joviality that is both charming and creepy." the movie might have been a high school satire worthy of comparison with Alexander Payne’s “Election.” But as it dashes around and eventually turns soft it loses its train of thought." at 18 is six years younger than Mr. Broderick was when “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off” was released in 1986 and he has a good decade ahead of him to corner the market on adolescent prodigies like Charlie. A rich kid bounced out of prep school for making fake IDs Charlie is forced to attend the institution of last resort the local high school. He arrives with ludicrous grandeur by chauffeured limousine wearing a blue blazer with Latin insignia and toting a fancy briefcase." Charlie picks up how to act the role of shrink. Operating from a toilet stall in the boys’ room he conducts therapy sessions with his troubled peers who line up for his services and to whom he doles out what he deems appropriate medication." Principal Gardner  (Robert Downey Jr.) runs afoul of the student body when he goes along with the superintendent’s insistence on installing surveillance cameras in the student lounge." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/22/movies/22vant.html
” a gimmick in search of a point is nothing if not er timely. Set in the picturesque Spanish city of Salamanca (otherwise known as Mexico City) this jigsaw puzzle exploits a repellent conceit — the shooting of an American president (William Hurt effectively insincere) — in a vague attempt to explore questions of narrative and subjectivity (like “Rashomon”) through the box-office-friendly form of a thriller (like the "Bourne” flicks). Instead of pushing the story forward the filmmakers instead repeatedly return to the crime or rather to a handful of witnesses all of whom saw the same exact event from critically different angles.""Vantage Point ” a gimmick in search of a point is nothing if not er timely. Set in the picturesque Spanish city of Salamanca (otherwise known as Mexico City) this jigsaw puzzle exploits a repellent conceit — the s" Amir Mokri; edited by Stuart Baird; music by Atli Orvarsson; production designer Brigitte Broch; produced by Neal H. Moritz; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." you get the point." Matthew Fox (Taylor) Forest Whitaker (Howard Lewis) Edgar Ramirez (Javier) Ayelet Zurer (Veronica) Sigourney Weaver (Rex Brooks) and William Hurt (President Ashton)." ” a gimmick in search of its own point is nothing if not er timely. Set mostly in a Spanish city it has been given a hard sheen by the director Pete Travis working from a screenplay by Barry L. Levy. This is competent if completely impersonal filmmaking of a familiar type that finds the usual allotment of famous or at least famous enough actors  — Dennis Quaid Forest Whitaker Matthew Fox and Sigourney Weaver  — arranged in various configurations in assorted spaces and delivering instantly forgettable dialogue. What does register: a slimmed-down Mr. Whitaker looks as sleek as an otter Mr. Fox is probably best cast to nice type and Ms. Weaver seems too big for her small bit as a television producer." ” a gimmick in search of its own point is nothing if not untimely. This is less a matter of topicality (this is of course a presidential election year) than a problem of timing in other words pacing narrative flow direction. In “Rashomon ” Kurosawa gives you four versions of the same incident and does so brilliantly. Here we get so many versions and viewpoints that a preview audience started to complain audibly each time the clock was reset though this probably had less to do with the fractured storytelling than its lack of brilliance. In truth with “Rashomon ” you really get five versions of the same anecdote because the most important belongs to the filmmaker a vantage point that’s missing from this newer work." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/16/movies/16akba.html
especially when she lays down the conditions for her marriage: She will remain a Hindu and would like a small temple for her Krishna statue in the Mughal fort. As Akbar the green-eyed Mr. Roshan a charter member of the Bollywood six-pack-abs club has the bearing of a king yet can seem a little blank when not in motion fighting enemies or stripped to the waist taming wild elephants (just a hobby)." for example are Akbar’s 199 other wives or the painters and poets who made his court a fabled one? But in choosing to tell the tale of this emperor and a Muslim-Hindu love story Mr. Gowariker makes a clear point. As Akbar says “Respect for each other’s religion will enrich Hindustan.”" with English subtitles) by Haidar Ali Mr. Gowariker and K. P. Saxena based on a story by Mr. Ali; director of photography Kiiran Deohans; edited by Ballu Saluja; music by A. R. Rahman lyrics by Javed Akhtar; production designer Nitin Chandrakant Desai; choreography by Chinni Prakash Rekha Prakash and Raju Khan; produced by Ronnie Screwvala and Mr. Gowariker; released by UTV Motion Pictures. Running time: 3 hours 33  minutes. This film is not rated." but sometimes in India they still do. “Jodhaa Akbar ” a historical romance directed by Ashutosh Gowariker is filmmaking on the grand scale of Cecil B. DeMille with romance stirring battles a cast of thousands and enough elephants and gold to sink the Titanic." the film is too long. The court intrigues and counterintrigues can seem rote and Akbar remains a bit of a cipher. Still even the dramatically slack parts will probably hold your attention. Mr. Gowariker and his cinematographer Kiiran Deohans fill their frames with beautiful palaces and scenery and the film bounces along to a memorable score by A. R. Rahman. (I’m still humming the songs.)" Aishwarya Rai Bachchan (Jodhaa) Kulbhushan Kharbanda (Raja Bharmal) Suhasini Mulay (Rani Padmawati) Mrs. Punan S. Sinha (Mallika Hamida Banu) and Ila Arun (Maham Anga)." now seems an apt time for a movie about Akbar the 16th-century Muslim emperor in India whose legacy is one of enlightened rule and almost radical religious tolerance. “Jodhaa Akbar” begins before all that when the young Akbar is still busy expanding the Mughal empire.  This gives Mr. Gowariker a chance for some cinematic derring-do — in one spectacular shot the camera rushes back to avoid being trampled by two armies — and to show the seeds of what made Akbar one of history’s good guys. He fights with purpose (to consolidate Hindustan) but not without mercy." though are really a windup to the love story that propels the film. Forging a political alliance Akbar marries Jodhaa a Rajput princess (a Hindu) and then sets out to win her heart. These royals are played by Hrithik Roshan and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan two rather astonishing specimens of human beauty. Neither is a great actor but both know what’s required of a star and seem to the palace born." a classic root-for-the-underdog story was one of the rare Bollywood movies to attract a non-South-Asian audience.  “Jodhaa” may lack that film’s populist appeal but it shares its sense of national purpose and could just as easily have borne its subtitle: “Once Upon a Time in India.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/15/movies/15vaca.html
his friendship with a smart rebellious girl named Hanna (Daniela Piepszyk) and his crush on a voluptuous waitress (Liliana Castro) are sweetly and sensitively depicted but they also feel a bit secondhand. Nonetheless the performances are charming and convincing and Mr. Joelsas does a good job of conveying Mauro’s loneliness and confusion as well as his playfulness. “The Year My Parents Went on Vacation” may not be terribly fresh or original but its warm sweet nostalgic tone is hard to dislike." played by Michel Joelsas is the child of left-wing activists who go underground to escape arrest torture or worse. Though they try anxiously and somewhat ineptly to shelter their son from what is happening their only choice seems to be to abandon him. But their plan to leave the boy with his grandfather in São Paulo goes awry and Mauro winds up in the grudging grumpy care of his grandfather’s neighbor Shlomo (Germano Haiut) a member of the city’s Orthodox Jewish community." when the country was ruled by a military dictatorship and its national soccer team led by Pelé was making its way toward the finals of the World Cup. Accordingly sports and politics both play  parts  in this film directed by Cao Hamburger which filters the tumult and trauma of Brazilian history through the perceptions of a 12-year-old boy named Mauro." Hebrew and Yiddish with English subtitles) by Claudio Galperin Braulio Mantovani Anna Muylaert and Mr. Hamburger based on a story by Mr. Hamburger and Mr. Galperin; director of photography Adriano Goldman; edited by Daniel Rezende; music by Beto Villares; production designer Cassio Amarante; produced by Caio Gullane Mr. Hamburger and Fabiano Gullane; released by City Lights Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes. This film is not rated." Daniela Piepszyk (Hanna) Germano Haiut (Shlomo) Simone Spoladore (Bia) Caio Blat (Ítalo) Eduardo Moreira (Daniel) and Liliana Castro (Irene)." worship and domesticity — the sounds of apartment house courtyards synagogues and shops — frequently overshadow what turns out to be a fairly conventional and sentimental story. Though the milieu is for most viewers novel the emotional elements of the film to say nothing of its characters are reassuringly if also somewhat disappointingly familiar." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/15/movies/15dead.html
superficially though “Diary” is a lot cheaper-looking generally smarter-sounding and a whole lot funnier. Its lead characters — played by Michelle Morgan Josh Close and seven other serviceable actors I’ve never heard of — run and strategize point and shoot and not just cameras. They flee from doom not toward it. They’re real and prickly and all too human and their mistakes feel true to life rather than a consequence of bad writing. One guy even plugs his camera into the wall when the juice runs low. They’re trying to make it out of zombieland alive not knowing as we do — take another look at the movie’s title — that the guy running this show thinks they are already dead." ” which was shot with a hand-held digital video camera and has the feel of a home movie now looks tired wrung out. The reason has nothing to do with video or hand-held cinematography but with the idiom of amateurism with a visual style that swaps artistry for a spurious authenticity. “Diary of the Dead” is supposed to look as if it had been shot by some freaked-out college kids who are as securely tethered to their video and cellphone cameras as a fetus is to its umbilical cord. And because their experience of the world is largely defined by mediated images they turn their lives and deaths into a spectacle just not a very exciting one." Adam Swica; edited by Michael Doherty; music by Norman Orenstein; production designer Rupert Lazarus; produced by Peter Grunwald Artur Spigel Sam Englebardt and Ara Katz; released by Third Rail Releasing. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." the kids are not all right says Mr. Romero and here’s the lowdown on the meltdown. It’s those blasted cameras those infernal machines the blinking screens and humming monitors that we run 24/7 and are now running us shutting us off from the real world (whatever that is). To be honest I kind of agree but agreeing philosophically with a movie doesn’t make it any good particularly when that movie insists — as this one does — on hammering home the obvious point again and again. There’s some striking filmmaking in “Diary of the Dead ” but there’s also a lot of less-than-elegant speechifying. Having already scared the stuffing out of us with his past films Uncle George has decided it’s time for a good talk." Josh Close (Jason) Shawn Roberts (Tony) Amy Lalonde (Tracy) Joe Dinicol (Eliot) and Scott Wentworth (Maxwell)." ” the loosest goosiest chapter in the filmmaker’s continuing zombieland epic we meet the enemy and he is us with video cameras. Set in Mr. Romero’s usual Pennsylvania stomping and chomping grounds (a k a Canada) the story pivots on a clutch of University of Pittsburgh students who in the process of fleeing legions of the undead — despite their obvious handicap zombies always find fresh meat — have taken up cameras thus becoming the producers of their own snuff biopic." and one of the problems with “Diary of the Dead” is that it doesn’t get into your body; it doesn’t shake you up jolt you make you shiver and squeak. It’s clever or at least clever enough to keep you going and interested from start to finish. It just isn’t scary. Paradoxically the movie’s self-reflexive conceit — that you’re watching what the characters are supposedly shooting — works against its fear factor. Because most of the characters wielding the cameras happen to be film students the images are somewhat finessed (and edited). But because most of the images are also meant to resemble nonprofessional visuals — there’s some surveillance material too — they’re not just drab they’re also stale." as when a couple of the characters — film students shooting a girl-meets-mummy cheapie — engage in some metacriticism and argue whether the dead are supposed to move fast or slow. Mr. Romero who inaugurated the era of the modern zombie with his 1968 masterpiece “Night of the Living Dead ” maintains that the undead should shuffle through this mortal coil not race as they do in some recent flicks. His purism has its point. Zippy zombies are frightening less because they’re dead (and hungry) but because their speed — particularly when combined with fast editing and agitated camera moves — affects you on a visceral level. The filmmaking gets into your body; Mr. Romero also wants to get into your head." which he began during the civil rights and Vietnam era and is now using to engage with the contemporary American scene. “Cloverfield” trades on the iconography of Sept. 11 turning familiar images of billowing smoke and swirling paper into virtuosic production design. By contrast in “Diary of the Dead” Mr. Romero pokes and prods and awkwardly struggles with some aftershocks of that day specifically what happens when a culture — particularly one gripped by fear — is overrun with images particularly atrocity images that ostensibly numb and dumb down that culture by blurring the real and the unreal true life and its canned image. Never mind that movies are part of the mix and that the movies lie too sometimes beautifully." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/15/movies/15shor.html
from Italy is the comic sleeper of the five. A businessman posing as a substitute teacher in a high school gives the students outrageous psychological quizzes and creates pandemonium with his slapstick antics. This bogus teacher who dives out of a window when the principal arrives to see what is going on is the ultimate class clown." ” inspired by the Turgenev story “First Love ” conjures the imagination of a romantically besotted 16-year-old boy in 19th-century Russia. Its animation hand-drawn in oil paint on glass depicts a primitive village society in a style suggesting Renoir by way of Chagall." it observes the clinging friendships among three young female patients. One who has been estranged from her parents for five years arranges a New Year’s Eve celebration a day ahead of time because another of the three is facing extremely risky surgery the next day." in which a greedy priest tries to sell an old man a machine that will take him to heaven and “I Met the Walrus ” a Canadian film that adds animated illustration to a brief 1969 interview with John Lennon." advancing technology has sparked an astonishing creative revolution. Chris Lavis and Maciek Szczerbowski’s cosmic film noir “Madame Tutli-Putli” (from Canada) uses stop-motion animation and sculptured figures with heavy chiaroscuro to evoke the title character’s hellish night train journey. To stare into the eyes of this lone middle-aged woman laden with baggage wearing a prim little hat and putting on a brave face is to locate the frightened child in everyone." who include a pair of sinister chess players and a libidinous lout making lewd gestures in the opposite seat she squirms and looks down. As the accelerating train spits fire on the tracks and the passengers abruptly disappear the woman who resembles a gothic caricature of Joyce Carol Oates gropes her way to the empty dining car where further mysteries await." ” which uses the Prokofiev score but no narration or dialogue. If the rustic Eastern European setting and predatory imagery of this British-Polish film which combines puppetry and digital images are harsher than that of “My Love ” the movie is somewhat undermined by sentimental touches like an animal-rights-friendly ending and the kitschy image of Peter as a big-eyed child." Daniel Barber and Matthew Brown’s western “The Tonto Woman” from Britain is the visually austere but pretentiously executed story of an itinerant cattle rustler who befriends the socially outcast wife of a rancher. Kidnapped by Mojave Indians shortly after her marriage the wife lived with them for 11 years before her husband rescued her and forced her to live apart from him in a remote farmhouse." and some range from 30 to 40 minutes long." his life of drudgery and servitude explodes into phantasmagoric images of women as fairy-tale princesses. The character and the tragic story woven around him capture the larger-than-life passions driving much Russian fiction." the imminence of death lies just under the surface gaiety. In its vision of women distracting one another from unbearable isolation the mood of the movie in which everything is gray white and steel-blue recalls that of Ingmar Bergman’s “Persona.”" puppetry stop-motion animation and digital wizardry are the order of the day. And what does it mean for American cinema that among the nominated shorts not one was made in Hollywood or even in the United States?" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/15/movies/15layl.html
Brooklyn and pins her hopes of staying on a suitor named David (David Moscow) an American-born agnostic Jew who has a public-access cable show about sex and is trapped in an unsatisfying relationship with a snooty fiancée (Callie Thorne of the television series “Rescue Me”)." produced and directed by Jay Jonroy; director of photography Harlan Bosmajian; edited by Egon Kirincic; music by Richard Horowitz and John Lissauer; production designer Peter Yesair; released by Films International Corporation. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." neurotic hero has a brother named Woody and a father named Mel as in Allen and Brooks.)" Jay Jonroy an Iraqi Kurd whose family was persecuted under Saddam Hussein layers “David & Layla” with sharply observed cultural details. Layla for instance earns money as the warm-up act at a belly-dancing club but tells her tradition-minded aunt and uncle (Anna George and Ed Chemaly) that she’s in nursing school. And she privately mourns her fiancé who was killed by Mr. Hussein’s forces." but the real problem is Abby the film’s most merciless stereotype: a cold castrating Jewish American princess who derails an already unsatisfying lovemaking session by snapping “Don’t touch the hair!” A movie with such an otherwise embracing message should have done better than this." “David & Layla” at times feels less like a movie than three or four episodes of a cable TV comedy. The fresh insights are countered by clichés including wacky music cues a first kiss disguised as CPR and recurring exposition-friendly scenes of David visiting his heavily accented therapist (Albert Macklin) to discuss his impotence." some language and a brief scene of drug use." Shiva Rose (Layla) Peter Van Wagner (Mel Fine) Polly Adams (Judith Fine) Will Janowitz (Woody Fine) Callie Thorne (Abby) Ed Chemaly (Uncle Ali) Alexandre Blaise (François) Hany Kamal (Imam) Anna George (Zina) and Albert Macklin (Dr. Susswein)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/14/movies/14stree.html
Robert Hoffman (Chase) Adam G. Sevani (Moose) Cassie Ventura (Sophie) Danielle Polanco (Missy) and Christopher Scott (Hair)." both of whom are white hold forth on the values of the Streets and barge into the club demanding that its mostly nonwhite patrons give them respect and a shot at the title the movie is writing socially aware checks that its trite fake-inspirational story can’t cash. This willfully clueless attitude about race and class — factors examined in the recent vastly superior “How She Move” — is irritating." this follow-up takes place in a gritty neighborhood has a white lead posits a universe where racial and class differences are minor obstacles to fun and pretends its clichés aren’t clichés." notably exuberant musical sequences (the best of which depicts couples salsa-dancing at a backyard barbecue) and a likable supporting cast including Adam G. Sevani as Moose a diminutive goofy but preternaturally confident dancer who might be the baddest nerd in movie history." an orphaned girl and a member of the 410 a notorious crew that stages musical pranks in public places and competes in dance contests at a club called the Streets. Andie auditions for admission to the school and gets in on the good word of its star dancer the handsome blond Chase (Robert Hoffman) who saw her dance at the club. Andie’s commitment to her new school gets her kicked out of her old crew but no matter. She forms a new crew with Chase who fantasizes about winning the grand prize in a contest at the Streets." based on characters created by Duane Adler; director of photography Max Malkin; edited by Andrew Marcus and Nicholas Erasmus; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer Devorah Herbert; choreography by Jamal Sims Nadine   (Hi Hat) Ruffin and Dave Scott; produced by Patrick Wachsberger Erik Feig Adam Shankman and Jennifer Gibgot; released by Touchstone Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." ” mixing new characters into the original’s setting the neighborhoods surrounding the Maryland School of the Arts in Baltimore." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/14/movies/14spid.html
Sarah Bolger (Mallory) Mary-Louise Parker (Helen) Nick Nolte (Mulgarath) Joan Plowright (Aunt Lucinda) David Strathairn (Arthur Spiderwick)." just because. Mulgarath takes many different forms the most frightening of which is surely the person of Nick Nolte. But his malevolence is less scary than routine as is the anxious twittering of Thimbletack a honey-eating house spirit (voiced by Martin Short) and the jokey gregariousness of Hogsqueal a porcine fellow with the voice of a suddenly overexposed Seth Rogen. Joan Plowright also shows up briefly as a wise and witchy old lady who clears up a few mysteries and leaves a few more in her wake." ” adapted from books by Tony DiTerlizzi and Holly Black represents the latest such effort. Instead of the kind of inspired imaginative synergy that distinguished the “Lord of the Rings” and later “Harry Potter” pictures this movie directed by Mark Waters (“Mean Girls”) feels more like a sloppy secondhand pander. It conjures a world of fanciful creatures —  some benign others hostile —  and introduces into it a group of squabbling human siblings (played by Sarah Bolger and Freddie Highmore) who have moved into a spooky old house in the middle of nowhere along with their newly divorced mother Helen (Mary-Louise Parker)." of course but even more so for their would-be creators who must compete in an ever more crowded field. Bookstore shelves are full of spells and sorcery and so these days are multiplexes as filmmakers take advantage of special-effects technology to bring literary enchantments to life." David Berenbaum and John Sayles based on the books by Tony DiTerlizzi and Holly Black; director of photography Caleb Deschanel; edited by Michael Kahn; music by James Horner; production designer James Bissell; special visual effects by Industrial Light & Magic; produced by Mark Canton Larry Franco Ellen Goldsmith-Vein and Mr. Kirkpatrick; released by Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon Movies. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." including buckets of special Nickelodeon-style slime for the gooey green goblin blood. The human cast works very hard to juggle the expected responses of wonderment panic and disbelief and also to work through some domestic issues. Helen’s divorce causes particular tension between her and her son Jared (Mr. Highmore). His twin brother Simon (also Mr. Highmore) is more conciliatory but also kind of wimpy and their older sister Mallory (Ms. Bolger) does a lot of yelling and stamping around before turning her wrath on the goblins." a scholar of the invisible world of sprites and goblins and the author of an encyclopedic reference book on their ways. That book locked away in a secret room is coveted by Mulgarath commander of a bloodthirsty monster crew who wants to use Spiderwick’s lore to wipe out all the cute little elves and fairies and the children as well." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/14/movies/14maybe.html
perhaps inevitably by disappointment. It is not hard to see that the Will of 1992 — smart handsome decent happy in love successful at work — is headed for a series of falls. Mr. Reynolds is dashing and sarcastic enough to fight off the lingering threat of blandness and a subtle enough actor not to spoil his character’s unhappiness with self-pity. Will is for all that a bit of a cipher or at least a sort of median Gen X-er his edges smoothed away and his unruly appetites tamed." Summer and April are all decidedly imperfect but Mr. Brooks succeeds in showing how their shortcomings are especially at first part of their allure. He also makes clear that Will besotted with each in turn does not know any of them as well as he thinks he does. He also is not quite sure what he wants. The treachery of love — and also its promise — is that people can surprise you." as Will’s best friend and sometime partner (they start a political consulting firm together after ’92) and Kevin Kline as an aging gonzo journalist who is Will’s chief rival for Summer’s affection." and a movie like this one has to acknowledge the mess without falling into it in which case it would be a sad little melodrama rather than a sparkling comic enchantment. In spite of everything viewers like Maya have to walk away with our faith in soul mates and happy endings confirmed rather than compromised or shattered." ” says an old folk song and in movies of this kind the man who does is likely to be viewed as a cad. Either that or the women he doesn’t end up with will be shown to have such egregious flaws that their rejection will come as a relief." theory and practice frequently part company which is what Will and Maya’s mother have recently done. Like any parent Will wants to tell his daughter the truth without subjecting her to unnecessary disillusionment or cynicism. And Mr. Brooks faces a similar challenge one that lesser romantic comedies tend to flee." unsentimental heart of the film. Ms. Fisher in particular enlivens every scene she’s in with a comic energy that’s antic and graceful." after all people divorce sleep around fall in love too soon too late or too often." the obliging blond college sweetheart; Summer (Rachel Weisz) the intriguing slightly dangerous dark-haired intellectual; and April (Isla Fisher) the impetuous redhead with whom Will trades insults at the New York campaign headquarters of Bill Clinton." MAYBE" the ’90s. Among the many charms of “Definitely Maybe” is the way it evokes the recent past without drowning in fussy period detail. Will ambitious and idealistic has come east from Madison Wis. (leaving Emily behind) to plunge into the world of electoral politics; and while this movie is hardly an incisive political satire it does capture some of the flavor of the times and more generally the headiness of youthful commitment to a cause." Maybe” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It’s fairly candid about what grown-ups do though it doesn’t show them doing it." Florian Ballhaus; edited by Peter Teschner; music by Clint Mansell; production designer Stephanie Carroll; produced by Tim Bevan and Eric Fellner; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes." Maybe ” a nimble and winning little romance written and directed by Adam Brooks begins with one of those awkward Important Talks that parents are sometimes required to have with their children. In this case Maya Hayes (Abigail Breslin) needs some debriefing after a sex education class at her Manhattan elementary school. She’s acquired some technical vocabulary but not a lot of context and so it falls to her dad Will (Ryan Reynolds) to do the necessary explaining." which forsake intelligence individuality and emotional risk for crude sex jokes or gauzy bridal-magazine fantasies. While “Definitely Maybe” is hardly perfect it navigates the choppy waters of modern courtship with commendable understated honesty. Perhaps the best evidence of this is that this movie unlike almost every other Hollywood tale of New York singles was actually filmed in the city." PG-13 version of the story of his life and loves before she was born. At first the ending seems predictable enough: after various false starts and digressions he will finally meet and marry her mommy. But neither the girl nor the audience knows which of the women his younger self meets the mother will turn out to be. (And for a while we forget that after their happy ending Mom and Dad will end up divorced.)" Isla Fisher (April) Derek Luke (Russell T. McCormack) Abigail Breslin (Maya Hayes) Elizabeth Banks (Emily) Rachel Weisz (Summer Hartley) and Kevin Kline (Hampton Roth)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/14/movies/14jump.html
David Rice (Max Thieriot) discovers that he can do an end run around the space-time continuum teleporting from here to there faster than Dorothy can click her sparkling red shoes. Before long he’s zipping from Detroit to Tokyo (and into bank vaults) and has transformed into a materialist slacker (now played by a somnolent Hayden Christensen) whose rooms are filled with goodies and walls are papered with images of his fave jump spots. One minute he’s cruising a blond sylph in London; the next he’s hanging with the Sphinx in Egypt. It’s all good except that it’s all bad from the subliterate dialogue to the chaotic direction and heavily edited points in between." her character doesn’t get much screen time largely because she appears to be on hand only to help humanize David to counterbalance the brutal father with the sentimentalized mother. She’s as disposable as the pretty bland thing (Rachel Bilson) who tags along with David for a while and has been written into the screenplay for all the reasons female characters are usually written into male coming-of-age stories namely she looks good in her underwear and establishes the hero’s heterosexuality. Ms. Bilson fills out her bra nicely but is nowhere as seductive as Jamie Bell who as a British jumper called Griffin gives the film a jolt of energy along with a heartbeat. When he jumps so does the film." you know something happens. In this case the something is mostly Samuel L. Jackson who as a mysterioso avenger arrives barking his lines and wearing the latest addition to what has become a notorious collection of extreme hairpieces and looks. Snow white and close cropped Mr. Jackson’s hair in this film dominates its every scene (it’s louder than the predictably voluble actor) rising out of the visual and narrative clutter like a beacon. It glows. It shouts. It entertains. (It earns its keep.) It also suggests that someone here has a sense of humor as does the casting of the persuasively thuggish Michael Rooker (“Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer”) and the woefully misused Diane Lane as David’s estranged parents." Jamie Bell (Griffin) Rachel Bilson (Millie Harris) Samuel L. Jackson (Roland) Diane Lane (Mary Rice) Michael Rooker (William Rice) AnnaSophia Robb (Young Millie) and Max Thieriot (Young David)." Doug Liman its three screenwriters its multiple producers or the various studio executives who might have done far too much meddling or not nearly enough. Whatever the case “Jumper” —  a barely coherent genre mishmash about a guy who transports himself across the globe at will  —  is of interest only because it revisits a theme that Mr. Liman has explored in films like “The Bourne Identity” and if reports about his troubled productions are true speaks to his own reputation as an escape artist: the character who wiggles out of trouble." Jim Uhls and Simon Kinberg based on the novel by Steven Gould; director of photography Barry Peterson; edited by Don Zimmerman Dean Zimmerman and Saar Klein; music by John Powell; production designer Oliver Scholl; visual effects supervisor Joel Hynek; produced by Mr. Kinberg Arnon Milchan Lucas Foster and Jay Sanders; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/13/movies/13ezra.html
“Ezra” loses its narrative continuity and becomes a choppy increasingly confused jumble of Ezra’s memories while he is being interrogated. Although he is assured that the commission modeled after one in South Africa was not created to fix blame and assign punishment it has a prosecutorial tone." unidentified in the movie is almost certainly Sierra Leone." ” barks the fearsome rebel leader (Emile Abossolo Mbo). “Forget everything you have learned till now. Today you are born again as children of this nation. You will fight and die for her.” Marching exercises and weapons instruction immediately commence." out of nowhere armed soldiers appear in the courtyard setting the building on fire and inciting panic. Rounding up the whimpering children they separate out the boys and herd them at gunpoint into the jungle where they are told they have to be ready to die for the cause of justice." his sister who can communicate only in sign language and by writing because her tongue was cut out during the attack. As the story is pieced together we also meet Ezra’s militant young wife Mariam  (Mamusu Kallon) the daughter of Maoists." living without food or sleep for three days they become mindless killing machines whose rampage ends only when they are literally unable to move. In such an altered state remembrance may be less a matter of repressing atrocities than of having no coherent consciousness while committing them." they flee the militia. Both are now aware that their leader is secretly exchanging diamonds from the mine near the campsite for weapons and drugs provided by corrupt European traders; meanwhile Ezra and his fellow soldiers have been living on the edge of starvation." Mariame N’Diaye (Onitcha) Mamusu Kallon (Mariam) Merveille Lukeba (Moses) Richard Gant (Mac Mondale) and Emile Abossolo Mbo (Rufus)." however is riveting. He doesn’t try to elicit sympathy for his character only to present him as a victim of war; there are probably tens of thousands like him." 1999 when this ragtag militia had orders to amputate the villagers’ hands and feet to prevent them from voting. (Hardly any of the butchery is shown.) Ezra who participated might have killed his own parents. What does he remember?" the film’s Nigerian-born director deserves credit for attempting something that was probably impossible. Most of the movie takes place inside Ezra’s brainwashed drug-scarred mind as he futilely tries to remember what happened. His amnesia may go beyond post-traumatic stress disorder. It isn’t until near the end of “Ezra” that we observe the preparations for that attack during which the soldiers now teenagers are given powerful amphetamine injections before going into battle." and undermining its authenticity is the fact that its mostly African cast speaks in a heavily accented English." ” Newton I. Aduaka’s scorching portrait of an African child who is kidnapped and turned into a soldier for a rebel militia is first seen as an innocent little boy crossing a bridge on his way to school. Inside a teacher scrawls the date July 13 1992 on the blackboard and assigns the pupils an essay “Why I Love My Country.”" Carlos Arango de Montis; edited by Sebastien Touta; music by Nicolas Baby; produced by Michel Loro and Gorune Aprikinian; released by California Newsreel. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/08/movies/08aziz.html
with English subtitles) and directed by Nacer Khemir; director of photography Mahmoud Kalari; edited by Isabelle Rathery; music by Armand Amar; produced by Les Films du Requin Behnegar Hannibal Film and Pegasos Film; released by Typecast Releasing. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes. This film is not rated." Mahmoud Kalari frames the dunes rock formations and sandblasted village and cities with a poet’s eye turning real spaces into dreamscapes." including a young man hoping to avenge a brother murdered by dervishes and a poet who has fallen in love with a dervish. All of Mr. Khemir’s narratives stress the value of true introspection as opposed to self-absorption and convey a sense of cultural continuity — of familial and societal values handed down over generations." Maryam Hamid (Ishtar) Nessim Kahloul (Zaid) Mohamed Grayaa (Osman) and Golshifteh Farahani (Nour)." about a young prince who becomes obsessed with staring at his reflection in a pool of water and neglects his duties." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/08/movies/08walk.html
” about the mistreatment of mothers suffering from childbirth injuries in Ethiopia starts out quietly furious detailing how its female subjects were ostracized by their villages husbands siblings even parents." holes between the vagina and the bladder or rectum. The holes are caused by prolonged labor and difficult birth traumas that often deliver a dead infant and cause the mother to leak blood urine or feces. Ethiopian women afflicted with  these injuries can find themselves living in a shack behind their family home cut off from normal social interaction and marginalized like incontinent pets." mothers and servants and treat anyone who can’t fulfill those roles as  a nonperson." where they wait to have their injuries repaired by surgery and form the sorts of peer groups that their condition denied them back home." Amharic and Oromiffa with English subtitles; directors of photography Tony Hardmon Ms. Smith and Jerry Risius; edited by Andrew Ford; music by David Schommer; produced by Ms. Bucher Steven Engel and Ms. Smith; released by Engel Entertainment. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/08/movies/08vaug.html
not even Cirque du Soleil’s high-tech spectacles could live up to the reputation of William Cody’s 19th-century touring circus which involved as many as 1 200 performers and living legends like Sitting Bull and Annie Oakley." the tour’s mastermind and M.C. exudes the same amiable guy’s-guy brashness he displays in movies like “Wedding Crashers.” But none of his protégés kill to use stand-up comedy lingo. Most of Mr. Ahmed’s humor revolves around his paranoia as an Egyptian-born Arab-American having to endure humiliating waits in airport security checkpoints after 9/11. We meet his parents who immigrated to the United States when he was a baby and hoped their son would become a doctor or a lawyer." fragments of country music provide regional flavors. In Bakersfield Calif. the tour makes a pilgrimage to a museum celebrating Buck Owens with accompanying music and television clips from “Hee Haw.” Dwight Yoakam an Owens disciple joins Mr. Vaughn onstage and cajoles him into singing." it had to be rerouted. In the most revealing scene Mr. Vaughn and his crew visit an Alabama trailer camp to give free tickets to the residents many of them New Orleans evacuees who lost everything. In a collective moment of insight the performers realize that sleeping in bunk beds in close quarters on a tour bus isn’t the worst thing in the world." when leading comedy clubs franchised themselves and stand-up humor was wishfully called the rock music of the day instant riches beckoned aspiring comics by the thousand. When “Wild West Comedy Show” was filmed Mr. Maniscalco still had a day job as a waiter." this one appears to have involved no drugs and the only alcohol in sight is an occasional beer or glass of wine. Despite the abundance of beautiful women in every city the sexual temperature remains below normal." “Wild West Comedy Show” is not a concert film. We never see a complete performance or even a quarter of one. The recipe for Mr. Vaughn’s variety show is left to the imagination. More of a backstage documentary the movie explores the lives of his guests handpicked comedians from the Comedy Store a Los Angeles club." Bret Ernst Sebastian Maniscalco and Ahmed Ahmed are observant likable comics but their humor never approaches the scabrous cutting-edge extremes of someone like Sarah Silverman. All are youngish ambitious professionals who are not about to blow an important career opportunity." the most physical of the four does a funny bit as an inferior skater in a roller rink. Mr. Caparulo plays a geeky self-mocking loner from Ohio. Much of Mr. Maniscalco’s humor deals with the contrasting behavior of men and women in nightclubs." 000-mile tour of one-night stands in 2005 Mr. Vaughn and four rising young male comedians (and  drop-in guests) traveled from Los Angeles across the southern tier of states and ultimately wound up in Chicago Mr. Vaughn’s hometown." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/08/movies/08rob.html
Joseph Meade; edited by M. Scott Smith amd Dennis M. Hill; music by Didier Lean Rachou; production designer Max Biscoe; produced by Rick Lashbrook Darby Parker Arthur Sarkissian and Tim O’Hair; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. This film is not rated." who went into the bank to protest has become entangled  in a robbery and is locked inside  the vault with feisty gum-chewing Jessica (Erika Christensen) who may or may not be a hostage. Surrounding the bank are sharpshooters under the command of an addled police officer (Terry Crews). Inside a nervous pill-popping gunman (Gavin Rossdale)  threatens to snap. Scenes are punctuated with gratuitous witless tips for aspiring bank robbers." written and directed by Andrews Jenkins would like to be a leaner meaner  example of the caper genre it also wants to send up. It can’t have it both ways." Erika Christensen (Jessica) Gavin Rossdale (Simon) Terry Crews (Officer DeGepse) Leo Fitzpatrick (Gunman) and David Carradine (Nick)." however but an 81-minute movie that runs out of ideas well before the halfway point. It opens with Jinx Taylor (Nick Stahl) a disgruntled slacker ranting to  an A.T.M. camera when he can’t withdraw his last $20  because his balance doesn’t cover the $1.50 surcharge. Such charges he complains are “nickel and diming us to death.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/08/movies/08brig.html
the talented young writer and director of “London to Brighton ” has put his trust in the same place. Apparently believing that heaven really is a place where nothing ever happens (as the old Talking Heads song goes) he has gathered together an impressively grody  and grim collection of whores thugs perverts dimwits and stoners for a feature film debut pitched between high-minded social drama and total sleaze. One minute he’s channeling the fictions of the Belgian filmmaking brothers Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne and their stories of grace and redemption (“The Son”); the next minute you’re slumming through the very cheapest in pulp exploitation riding high and also feeling kind of low." though that scarcely matters. That’s partly because there are only so many directions a commercially minded street story like this can go and partly because Mr. Williams finesses more scenes than he botches. He’s good at those quieter scenes that find two people simply (or not so simply) talking say across a kitchen table as Kelly and Derek do when he persuades her to go trolling for a child hooker.  She does which is how she meets Joanne a wary scrap of a girl whose hooded red sweatshirt signals that Mr. Williams is reaching for some kind of symbolism that he drops rather than develops." despite a visual style that seems self-consciously borrowed from the Dardennes a title that nods in the direction of Greene and that little red hoodie. A slice of social realism a wedge of naturalism a symbolically freighted fairy tale — at times “London to Brighton” feels like all  of these combined which before it all  turns to mush gives the film the aspect of a fascinating and ambitious pastiche. There’s something provocative about Mr. Williams’s attempt to join together so many conflicting contradictory influences even if in the end they manage only to cancel one another out." while the graffiti the bathroom stall the tears the blood the bottle-blond hair and the swollen black eye set the agitated mood. A prostitute Kelly (Lorraine Stanley) her eye nearly shut from some unstated hurt has taken charge of an 11-year-old stray Joanne (Georgia Groome) and now the two are on the run from a pimp Derek (Johnny Harris) and his somewhat slow second in command Chum (Nathan Constance). In this dog-eat-dog world Derek is in turn heeding his own master Stuart (Sam Spruell) a dangerous bully in a casual beige suit and black luxury car who wants the runaways for his own purposes." Christopher Ross; edited by Tom Hemmings; music by Laura Rossi; production designer Jane Levick; produced by Alastair Clark Rachel Robey Ken Marshall and Mr. Williams; released by Outsider Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." its jerky camerawork and gritty texture the British film “London to Brighton” tries awfully hard to pass itself off as a slab of rancid naturalism. Then there’s that title of course which invokes Graham Greene’s pitiless 1938 novel “Brighton Rock ” with its slums its fear and the razor-wielding boy of whom Greene writes “Heaven was a word: hell was something he could trust.”" though it does during the unfortunate finale when Mr. Williams brings out the knives the blood and a villain who all but invites those knives and that blood. That ending is a mess filled with too much noise and music and yelling and falseness. Yet rewind to the beginning (which come to think of it also opens with a great deal of noise) and you are returned to a somewhat different film. That other film may not be wholly believable either but in its crumbling homes and ugly streets and particularly in its lead performances it locates a sense of despair that for a time feels more in the service of the characters than of our entertainment." Johnny Harris (Derek) Sam Spruell (Stuart Allen) Nathan Constance (Chum) Alexander Morton (Duncan Allen) and Georgia Groome (Joanne)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/08/movies/08rosc.html
” a comedy about a talk-show host (Martin Lawrence) revisiting his relatives down South there’s a scene in which characters sit in the family patriarch’s living room playing video games. The scene is already funny because the competitors are playing on a bulky 1977 television   while the hero’s recent gift to his father a flat-screen plasma  set sits unopened in a box nearby. But the crowning touch is a throwaway detail: The  TV’s knob is missing its button and in its place is a pair of pliers clamped over the metal stem." Margaret Avery (Mamma Jenkins) Joy Bryant (Bianca Kittles) Louis C. K. (Marty) Michael Clarke Duncan (Otis) Mike Epps (Reggie) Mo’Nique (Betty) Nicole Ari Parker (Lucinda) Cedric the Entertainer (Clyde) Damani Roberts (Jamaal) and James Earl Jones (Papa Jenkins)." a braggart who now calls himself R. J. Stevens and whose cockiness masks his hurt over past and present miseries." and “Roscoe Jenkins” is aces in that department from Clyde’s fits of comic weeping (he sounds like the Cowardly Lion) to the newly  health-conscious  Roscoe’s furtive sampling of forbidden barbecue (his sauce goatee gives him away) to the veteran scene-stealer Mike Epps as Roscoe’s hustling best friend getting a laugh simply by pronouncing the word Telemundo." shot like something out of a  soft-core film that pays off in subsequent images of those same dogs tenderly spooning. As  the song says everybody needs somebody sometime." Bianca Kittles (a gem of a performance by Joy Bryant) is a “Survivor” prizewinner who pressures Roscoe’s sweet-natured son Jamaal (Damani Roberts) to be more ruthless and whose scheming nature brings out Roscoe’s least flattering qualities. (Roscoe puts up with her because the sex makes him speak in tongues.)" language and some drug references." who treats the empathetic Lucinda as a possession and Roscoe who sees her as his salvation; the sequence in which the family members run an obstacle course and Roscoe must choose between helping his struggling son and heeding Bianca’s exhortations to abandon Jamaal and win the race. (The film’s vilification of Bianca is its least savory aspect; a  story with this many screwed-up hypercompetitive characters has no business scapegoating one of them.)" Greg Gardiner; edited by George Bowers and Paul Millspaugh; music by David Newman; production designer William Elliott; produced by Scott Stuber Mary Parent and Charles Castaldi; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes." an adopted child turned used-car impresario who won every prize Roscoe coveted including Lucinda (Nicole Ari Parker sweet but tough) Roscoe’s childhood crush and Clyde’s current squeeze. Roscoe’s gossiping eavesdropping trash-talking sister (Mo’Nique) stirs every pot and when called out by Roscoe silences him with a “Raising Arizona”-level backside whupping." accomplished supporting cast (including James Earl Jones as Papa Jenkins Margaret Avery as Mamma Jenkins and Cedric the Entertainer and Mo’Nique as the hero’s siblings) a chance to clown around. But it’s a cut above other films of its type because every scene is packed with details like those pliers — touches that suggest that the film’s writer and director Malcolm D. Lee (“The Best Man”) is working overtime to smuggle life into formula." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/08/movies/08hott.html
this tasteless train wreck asks only that she preen and prance on cue. As Cristabel Abbott half of the film’s title and the entirety of its purpose Ms. Hilton plays a Los Angeles magnet to a variety of drooling stalkers. Chief among these is Nate (Joel David Moore) a needy nerd whose adoration flowered in first grade and stubbornly resists the evidence of his bathroom mirror." denigrate little people and perform the most revealing downward dog in yoga history." Joel David Moore (Nate Cooper) Christine Lakin (June Phigg) and Johann Urb (Johann Wutrich)." Alex Vendler; edited by Jeff Malmberg and James Miley; music by David E. Russo; production designer John Larena; produced by Victoria Nevinny Neal Ramer Myles Nestel and Hadeel Reda; released by Regent Releasing. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." the Internet and the penitentiary Paris Hilton might have taken a moment to reflect on her choices. Or perhaps not: with “The Hottie & the Nottie” Ms. Hilton proves yet again that introspection — not to mention shame — is as alien to her as a life without paparazzi." however he must find someone willing to deflower Cristabel’s best friend June (Christine Lakin) a sweetheart buried beneath a crusty coating of plaque eczema and toenail fungus. But while Heidi Ferrer’s script feigns interest in June’s inner beauty the camera creeps beneath Cristabel’s swimsuit and hangs on her every word. “A life without orgasms is like a world without flowers ” she pants.  Hallmark eat your heart out." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/08/movies/08fool.html
by the way. But perhaps I’ve saved you some trouble." Kate Hudson (Tess) Donald Sutherland (Nigel Honeycutt) Ewen Bremner (Alfonz) Alexis Dziena (Gemma Honeycutt) Kevin Hart (Bigg Bunny) and Ray Winstone (Moe Fitch)." as golden as a pair of rotisserie chickens squabble and cavort in a tropical paradise. How nice for them and for those in the audience who want nothing more from a midwinter trip to the movies than to gaze upon the tawny limbs and perfect bellybuttons of the stars." since it seems possible that either Gemma or her dad or perhaps both might become an obstacle to Tess and Finn’s inevitable reconciliation. Instead the film  stages a melodrama of father-daughter estrangement between Nigel and Gemma and abruptly shelves the dumb bimbo jokes though not the leering camerawork aimed at Ms. Dziena." within a single movie a rich old guy in an ascot (Donald Sutherland) a crusty boat captain (Ray Winstone) and a murderous greedy rap star (Kevin Hart) along with a loving sharp-tongued gay couple and a pair of hapless criminal minions." even though she still  loves him to dump him and return  to graduate school. First however she finds work on a yacht belonging to Nigel Honeycutt (Mr. Sutherland) whose jet-setting daughter Gemma (Ms. Dziena) drops in for some text messaging and bikini modeling." and the movie turns into a dull noisy pursuit of old Spanish coins aided by maps and letters and enough pseudohistorical explanation to round out the next episode in the “National Treasure” franchise." John Claflin and Daniel Zelman based on a story by Mr. Claflin and Mr. Zelman; director of photography Don Burgess; edited by Troy Takaki and Tracey Wadmore-Smith; music by George Fenton; production designer Charles Wood; produced by Donald De Line Bernie Goldmann and Jon Klane; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes." ” a hectic action-romance-comedy directed by Andy Tennant from a script credited to him John Claflin and Daniel Zelman. There is Alexis Dziena’s bellybutton for instance winking in solidarity (and perhaps  in friendly competition) with Ms. Hudson’s. And if plot is what you want there is plenty of incident including underwater fights and high-speed shenanigans involving motor scooters Jet Skis and prop planes." who were less than electrifying in “How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days ” appear to be suffering through a class in remedial chemistry which they barely pass. Their characters Finn and Tess are on the verge of divorce." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/08/movies/08brug.html
Mr. Farrell and especially the late-arriving and welcome Mr. Fiennes have great fun rummaging around inside Mr. McDonagh’s modest bag of tricks. The three work well together with Mr. Gleeson’s solid stolid physicality and performance  giving ballast to Mr. Farrell’s lilting fluttery turn. It’s easy for Mr. Farrell to turn on heat; what’s hard for him as an actor is turning the temperature off or at least down as he does here —  finding another way to connect to the material (and us) beyond the promise in his dark fluttering lashes. His performance as Ray is as crudely conceived as it is finally sentimental (the same goes for the film) but it’s also winning because Mr. Farrell makes us see the goofy side of seduction." a device that forces you to heed both the musicality of the language and all that lies beneath those words — the oblique hopes the implied fears the unarticulated relationships. “We shall strike a balance between culture and fun ” says Ken while coercing Ray to go sightseeing. “Somehow I believe Ken the balance will tip in the favor of culture ” says Ray. Mr. Farrell’s voice rises up nearly to a falsetto on the word tip which underscores the absurdity of the scene — two paid killers sightseeing in Bruges or anywhere — while adding an inescapable suggestion of menace." ” his feature filmmaking debut. Neither work offers much beyond the comedy of words and wounds though there is sting in both. In “Inishmore” an I.R.A. enforcer says: “Come on in ahead for yourselves. I’m just in the middle of shooting me Dad.” The lines are funny kind of sort of precisely because of the apparent diffidence with which the enforcer (or rather Mr. McDonagh) joins two seemingly dissonant themes in this case politeness and patricide. The enforcer tortures men in the name of terror but (oh irony!) he loves his cat." Harry (Ralph Fiennes). There about an hour from Brussels and a greater psychological distance from their home in London Ray and Ken wait and talk and wait and talk in a hotel room built for two. Ken reads books and coaxes Ray to enjoy the sights. Ray responds by scuffing his shoes on the ground like the child he’s meant to resemble from his pretty pout to his comically expressive eyebrows dark slashes that rise and fall and further accent the already heavily intonated dialogue. The camera drags along too." both diverting and forgettable. Despite the guns genre posturing and self-consciously naughty shocks (jokes about racist dwarfs and  fat Americans) it’s also unmistakably sincere. The writing sounds like the handiwork of a very clever young filmmaking student with a fondness for Sartre and Tarantino though here the 30-something Mr. McDonagh only name-drops Nicolas Roeg and “Touch of Evil.” These are solid allusions certainly yet like that 15th-century painting of the unfortunate prisoner being flayed alive — which suggests that Mr. McDonagh means to say something about the spectacle of violence — they don’t add up to anything. He talks a blue streak beautifully but he has yet to find the nuance and poetry that make his red images signify with commensurate sizzle and pop." Eigil Bryld; edited by Jon Gregory; music by Carter Burwell; production designer Michael Carlin; produced by Graham Broadbent and Pete Czernin; released by Focus Features. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." bloody wounds." ” an amusing trifle from the potty-mouthed playwright Martin McDonagh two hit men pause before a painting awe and puzzlement and perhaps something else shading their faces. The painting — a 15th-century Netherlandish diptych  — shows a prisoner wearing a loincloth and a strangely calm expression given that he’s being flayed alive. A small gathering of men (an audience you might say) stands around the condemned whose left calf is being peeled like a blood orange." Brendan Gleeson (Ken) Ralph Fiennes (Harry) Clémence Poésy (Chloë) and Jérémie Rénier (Eirik)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/02/movies/02wild.html
“Strange Wilderness” is so inert that it doesn’t so much unreel on screen as loiter there giggling at its own outrageousness." drug use nudity violence and many graphic injuries to the gonads." which are expected even welcome in this sort of movie. It’s the smug sense of entitlement — that of intoxicated dweebs tittering endlessly and obnoxiously at their own supposed cleverness. “Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle” is the gold standard in this genre. “Strange Wilderness” is a counterfeit bill." Mr. Zahn’s character is named after Peter Gaulke a screenwriter and former writer for “Saturday Night Live.” Mr. Covert’s character a sound man is named after Fred Wolf who is making his directorial debut with “Strange Wilderness” and is also a former “SNL” writer. Mr. Wolf and Mr. Gaulke wrote the screenplay." Allen Covert (Fred Wolf) Jonah Hill (Cooker) Kevin Heffernan (Bill Whitaker) Ashley Scott (Cheryl) Peter Dante (Danny Gutierrez) Harry Hamlin (Sky Pierson) Robert Patrick (Gus Hayden) Joe Don Baker (Bill Calhoun) Justin Long (Junior) Jeff Garlin (Ed Lawson) and Ernest Borgnine (Milas)." who can do better than this stars as Peter Gaulke the rascally pot-smoking host of a nature show that he inherited from his father and allowed to degenerate into a ready-for-cable-access shadow of its former self. When Gaulke’s fed-up employer (Jeff Garlin) the boss of a Nature Channel-type network threatens to cancel the series Gaulke loads up his Winnebago with camera equipment and deranged intoxicant-inclined seemingly incompetent crew members (including Allen Covert of “The Wedding Singer” and Jonah Hill of “Superbad”) and drives to Costa Rica in search of Bigfoot." cutesy-profane acoustic guitar numbers performed by Mr. Hill that make you wish you were watching a Jack Black movie instead; piranha and shark attacks played for laughs; and an unprintable perhaps indescribable admittedly audacious gag that puts a turkey in a compromising position." David Hennings; edited by Tom Costain; music by Waddy Wachtel; production designer Perry Andelin Blake; produced by Mr. Gaulke; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/02/movies/02eye.html
burning corpses and screaming violins." ” directed by the Thai filmmakers Danny and Oxide Pang was an insinuating ghost story that cleverly exploited cinema’s fascination with all things ocular. But what the Pangs accomplished with little more than a talent for framing and focus this remake (directed by David Moreau and Xavier Palud) fails to achieve despite an arsenal of strobe lighting and crashing chords. The debt owed by both movies to “The Sixth Sense” and “The Mothman Prophecies” is only more obvious." Sydney is unprepared when a cornea transplant not only restores her sight but also allows her to see dead people. As the departed stalk her in elevators and accost her in corridors Sydney resolves to trace the origins of her new peepers. Naturally every step of this journey must be spelled out — twice." based on the film “Gin Gwai” by Jo Jo Yuet-chun Hui Oxide Pang and Danny Pang; director of photography Jeffrey Jur; edited by Patrick Lussier; music by Marco Beltrami; production designer James Spencer; produced by Paula Wagner Don Granger and Michelle Manning; released by Lionsgate and Paramount Vantage. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." “The Eye” benefits from a spiky performance by Alessandro Nivola as Sydney’s rehabilitation counselor. “Your eyes are not the problem ” he tells her at one point. He is so so right." Alessandro Nivola (Dr. Paul Faulkner) Parker Posey (Helen Wells) and Rade Serbedzija (Simon McCullough)." ” the blind violinist Sydney Wells (Jessica Alba) whines at the beginning of “The Eye ” the latest Western deconstruction of a successful Asian horror movie." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/01/movies/01witn.html
fresh from the provinces shares space with his sister Julie (Julie Depardieu) an aspiring opera singer in a cheap hotel that is a center of prostitution under scrutiny by Mehdi who leads the police force’s vice division. But Mehdi off duty is not as rigid as he appears." while visiting Sarah and Mehdi at her parents’ summer house on the Riviera are treated like family. One afternoon when Mehdi and Manu go swimming in a remote cove Mehdi saves Manu from drowning and while tugging him to shore and administering mouth-to-mouth resuscitation becomes aroused. Later when Manu makes a pass at Mehdi he responds and they embark on a secret no-strings-attached affair that proceeds without a hitch until Manu becomes sick." the unpredictability of relationships and the haphazard way love affairs friendships and social groups form and dissolve. Many of his films like “Changing Times” and “Wild Reeds ” portray a multicultural environment in which French and North African characters mingle sometimes uneasily." Emmanuelle Béart (Sarah) Sami Bouajila (Mehdi) Julie Depardieu (Julie) and Johan Libéreau (Manu)." Sarah’s close friend Adrien (Michel Blanc) a homely middle-aged gay doctor prowls a popular cruising ground where he meets Manu (Johan Libéreau) an arrogant young man who refuses to sleep with him but agrees to be his companion and his student of life’s finer things. Wildly in love with his shallow narcissistic protégé Adrien is shrewd enough not to push too hard but there is an element of masochism in his abject devotion." her curiosity about its details becomes obsessive and she begins writing an adult novel based on the dying Manu’s AIDS journal." the ground under our feet is always shifting. As time pulls us forward the shocks of the past are absorbed and the pain recedes. In its light-handed way “The Witnesses” is profound." with English subtitles) by Mr. Téchiné Laurent Guyot and Viviane Zingg; director of photography Julien Hirsch; edited by Martine Giordano; music by Philippe Sarde; production designer Michèle Abbe; produced by Saïd Ben Saïd; released by Strand Releasing. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. This film is not rated." “The Witnesses ” set in 1984 observes this wonderland shocked out of its complacency by the arrival of AIDS. Suddenly a closely knit group of friends — straight gay and bisexual — is forced to confront the uncertainties and terrors of the epidemic in its early days. It is imperative that they disclose their discreetly kept sexual secrets and report their H.I.V. status." free-spirited women are in charge of their own sexuality to a degree rarely found in American movies unless those women are designated as  vixens. But if the world according to Téchiné is a liberated wonderland with few boundaries living there comfortably requires that you wear sophisticated psychological armor." a well-to-do writer of children’s books and her working-class husband Mehdi (Sami Bouajila) a hard-nosed police inspector of North African descent. Mehdi is outraged at Sarah’s indifference to their newborn baby whose cries she tunes out with earplugs while she works. Sarah and Mehdi have a pact: both are allowed to take outside lovers in a “don’t ask don’t tell” arrangement that seems to work although it is not without its subliminal tensions." political sermonizing and the jerking of tears. Mr. Téchiné working from a screenplay he wrote with Laurent Guyot and Viviane Zingg refuses to pigeonhole his characters in comfortable niches or ethical positions. The film skips ahead with the pace of a light romantic comedy rarely lingering long enough on a scene to conjure melodrama." now a leader in the fight against AIDS of being jealous of his affair with Manu and of basking in his role of noble crusader and medical know-it-all. Adrien fires back that Mehdi in his reluctance to get an AIDS test and to tell Sarah about the affair is a selfish coward. Each is only half right." which uses recurrent images of water and aviation unfolds in three chapters. The first remembers the heady pre-AIDS era. The second observes the foursome’s reactions to the crisis which for each is a test of character and of the strength of bonds they have taken for granted. In the third those who remain pick up the pieces and go on." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/01/movies/01lior.html
the director Ilana Trachtman captures a larger story. As the Lieblings engage in exhaustive preparations for Lior’s bar mitzvah we see a sweet-natured high-functioning young man enjoy a level of assimilation — and attention — granted to few of the mentally disabled. A near-celebrity within his neighborhood Lior seems unaware of his real-world limitations — a fact that worries his stepmother Lynne Iser though not his father Mordechai." Slawomir Grunberg and Ari Haberberg; edited by Zelda Greenstein; music by Andy Statman; released by First Run Features. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes. This film is not rated." Ms. Trachtman teases out the tricky dynamics of a family dealing with a disabled child. Lior’s devoted brother Yoni sometimes resents being expected to take on parental responsibilities (“This is not my job”) while his older sister Reena recalls becoming a surrogate mother after the death of their mother in 1997." who as the youngest laments her displacement as the center of attention. “It’s kind of annoying ” she tells us with charming candor. And watching everything in the household revolve around Lior it’s clear that the price of his happiness may be steeper for some than for others." “Praying With Lior” documents the extraordinary life of Lior Liebling a rabbi’s son with Down syndrome and an obsessive love of prayer." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/01/movies/01ship.html
” directed by Laurin Federlein and written by Mr. Federlein and Mr. Aronson is a deliberate affront to the very idea of slick entertainment. The movie was heavily improvised by Mr. Aronson who inflicted Vincent’s deadpan spiels on various unsuspecting locals and shot on smudgy Hi-8 video the format used to capture  visionary epics like your cousin’s wedding and your nephew’s graduation. It wears its roughness as a badge of honor and is all the funnier as a result." you start to appreciate his logic or at least entertain it as you might the babblings of a beloved friend or relative who is more eccentric than sensible. Vincent who’s touring the Scottish countryside hoping to cure its inhabitants of their “loneliness” via a mobile disco is like a Werner Herzog hero without the magnetism.  Yet while he’s harmless he’s far from irrelevant. The objects of his endless monologues invariably deny that they’re lonely and in need of Vincent’s bargain-basement variety of magic but sometimes you catch a glimmer of doubt in their eyes." the kooky dreamer hero of the short feature “Build a Ship Sail to Sadness.”" SAIL TO SADNESS" Sadik Ahmed; edited by Bert Hunger; music by Mr. Aronson. At the Anthology Film Archives 32-34 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 9 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/01/movies/01cara.html
while edible is mainly used like wax for hair removal. Lovely and smooth as Ms. Labaki’s film (and her cast) may be there are also twinges of real pain and disappointment." and also have troubles of their own. Jamale (Gisèle Aouad) is a recently divorced actress made frantic by the necessity of competing with younger women for work in television commercials. Nisrine (Yasmine Al Masri) a Muslim is engaged and is worried about what will happen if her future husband discovers that she isn’t a virgin. Rima (Joanna Moukarzel) who cleans up around the shop and washes hair develops a crush on an elegant client. And then there is Aunt Rose (Siham Haddad) a seamstress who lives down the street from Layale’s shop with her demanding mentally disabled sister Lili (Aziza Semaan)." who also wrote the screenplay with Jihad Hojeily and Rodney Al Haddad plays Layale owner of the shop which is called Si Belle. Like many unmarried women in the Middle East Layale in spite of her professional independence lives with her parents. She is also having an affair with a married man and spends anxious hours waiting for him to call ignoring the attentions of a handsome traffic policeman who is obviously smitten with her." or perhaps a Pedro Almodóvar film without camp or kinkiness. And Ms. Labaki is less interested in breaking new ground than in providing her audience the kind of comfort and catharsis that her characters give one another. Which is not to say that “Caramel” is overly soft or sweet." with English subtitles) by Ms. Labaki Jihad Hojeily and Rodney Al Haddad; director of photography Yves Sehnaoui; edited by Laure Gardette; music by Khaled Mouzanar; produced by Anne-Dominique Toussaint; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." sizes ages and backgrounds gather to bond and gossip. Their camaraderie is occasionally disrupted by a crisis but you are likely to remember this charming film directed by Nadine Labaki less for its gently comic mildly melodramatic plot than for its friendly and inviting atmosphere." even to viewers who have never been to the Lebanese capital. What the shop lacks in sleekness and chic it makes up for in the kind of friendly sisterly warmth that could be found for instance in “Beauty Shop ” the distaff installation in the “Barbershop” franchise." and each of them faces moments of humiliation loneliness and potential heartbreak. But in the best melodramatic tradition their toughness good humor and loyalty see them through. Those qualities and Ms. Labaki’s evident affection for the battered panache of her native city make “Caramel” hard to resist." Yasmine Al Masri (Nisrine) Joanna Moukarzel (Rima) Gisèle Aouad (Jamale) Adel Karam (Youssef) Aziza Semaan (Lili) and Siham Haddad (Rose)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/01/movies/01beco.html
Yael and Sarah than at plumbing the depths of Schlomo’s tormented inner life. Armand Amar’s score a wailing pastiche of Middle Eastern and Western styles helps evoke his suffering and longing but it is both annoyingly repetitive and like Schlomo’s monologues to the moon mawkish." the movie directed by the Romanian-French filmmaker Radu Mihaileanu aspires to be something like a contemporary “Exodus” from an outsider’s point of view. But so many themes converge with so much history as the film tries to integrate an anguished personal odyssey with two decades of events many seen briefly on television that 140 minutes is barely enough time." Schlomo (shortened from Solomon) is warned never to reveal his true identity lest he be deported. It isn’t until years later that he realizes his mother’s rejection was his salvation and not a punishment. For the remainder of the film he pines for her and a recurrent overused image shows him gazing at the moon and talking to her." a spirited girl whose father sensing Schlomo may not be Jewish slams the door in his face and warns that he will cut off his finger if he presses the doorbell again. But the relationship continues long distance after Schlomo leaves Israel to study medicine in Paris. And when he returns after years apart they marry." a kind-hearted Ethiopian rabbi who helps him write letters to his mother in his native language. But as he assimilates into Israeli society mastering Hebrew studying the Torah and having a bar mitzvah the movie portrays him as a divided soul torn between his African roots and his assiduously cultivated Jewish identity." its pace becomes choppy. Incendiary emotional confrontations are rushed shortcuts taken and the movie screeches to a halt in an overly sentimental ending that is too abrupt to elicit the buckets of tears it might have given more preparation." of populations on the move in a restless multicultural world. It makes you reconsider cultural assimilation a process that may seem to be complete but whose underlying conflicts may never be fully resolved." ” an intermittently compelling swatch of recent Israeli history filtered through the experience of an African immigrant." Hebrew and French with English subtitles) by Mr. Mihaileanu and Alain-Michel Blanc; director of photography Rémy Chevrin; edited by Ludo Troch; music by Armand Amar; art director Eytan Levy;  produced by Denis Carot and Marie Manmonteil (Elzevir Films) Mr. Mihaileanu (Oi Oi Oi Productions) Riccardo Tozzi Giovanni Stabilini and Marco Chimenz (Cattleya) and Dominique Janne (K2); released by Menemsha Films.  Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes. This film is not rated." Hana dies of tuberculosis and Schlomo is adopted by a liberal French-Israeli couple Yael (Yael Abecassis) and Yoram (Roschdy Zem) who already have two children. Although they are affectionate and supportive Schlomo has difficulty adjusting; he refuses to eat picks fights and tries to run way." Schlomo is shunned by his schoolmates whose parents demand that he be withdrawn because he is exposing their children to exotic African diseases. Outraged at their prejudice Yael storms into the school throws a fit and in the film’s most unexpected and moving gesture publicly kisses and licks Schlomo’s face to demonstrate he is not a health threat." who assumes the name Schlomo lives a lie. (He is played by Moshe Agazai as a boy Mosche Abebe as an adolescent and Sirak M. Sabahat as a young adult and the movie’s transitions from one actor to the next are smooth.) His secret — that he is Christian and not descended from the Ethiopian Jewish tribe known as the Falasha also called the Beta Israel — lends the movie its moral traction as well as suspense over whether his secret will be discovered. Conceptually the film is a sequel of sorts to the director’s 1998 Holocaust fable “Train of Life ” in which Jews pose as Nazis to escape deportation." when the boy is 9 and living with his mother in a squalid refugee camp in Sudan. In the wrenching opening scene the mother (Meskie Shibru Sivan) forces her weeping son to leave her side and join the transport of Ethiopian Jews to Israel in the secret Israeli airlift code-named Operation Moses. Under the provisions of Israel’s Law of Return those with Jewish parents and grandparents could settle in Israel and become citizens; thousands emigrated." Roschdy Zem (Yoram) Moshe Agazai (Schlomo as a boy) Mosche Abebe (Schlomo as a teenager) Sirak M. Sabahat (Schlomo as a man) Roni Hadar (Sarah) Meskie Shibru Sivan (Schlomo’s mother) Mimi Abonesh Kebede (Hana) Rami Danon (Schlomo’s grandfather) Yitzhak Edgar (Qes Amhra) and Avi Oria (Sarah’s father)." the boy is substituted at the last minute for Solomon the dead son of Hana (Mimi Abonesh Kebede) a Falasha woman who agrees to take him. The enigmatic final words of his mother “Live and become ” resonate through the rest of the film." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/01/movies/01hann.html
Rich Corell and Barry O’Brien; director of photography Mitchell Amundsen; edited by Michael Tronick; produced by Art Repola; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 14 minutes. This film is rated G." who performs as both herself and as her television alter ego Hannah Montana. To her credit her attire isn’t tawdry and it appears that she can sing." ” Paul Simon once sang and in 2008 there’s Miley Cyrus (excuse me Miley Ray Cyrus)  — on television on the iTunes Top 10 and in theaters with this 3-D artifact of her just concluded tour. Bygone decades had Donny Osmond Menudo and New Kids on the Block. Today Walt Disney — which also spawned Britney Spears Justin Timberlake and Christina Aguilera — feeds tweens their pop idols. But don’t call it packaged teenage rebellion. In this movie  there are few teenagers and no rebellion only bouncy inspirational ditties. “I Miss You ” a wholesome ode to Ms. Cyrus’s dead grandfather is as doleful as it gets." or much about Ms. Cyrus. Does it matter? Not to your “Hannah Montana”-addicted daughter. She’ll be listening to other music soon enough. Maybe Ms. Cyrus will be making it. Maybe." this year’s Lou Pearlman reassuring Ms. Cyrus after she has been literally dropped onstage by her dancers. Taking orders from adults can’t be fun for a 15-year-old on a grinding three-month concert-go-round." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/01/movies/01body.html
in a curve-hugging white dress as the desperate housewife from hell. Or whatever zone of the afterlife Kate arrives at after an errant ice sculpture fatally disrupts her wedding to Henry. Possessive and controlling even in death she tries to keep Ashley away from her erstwhile man through a campaign of annoyingness rather like the one Reese Witherspoon used against Mark Ruffalo in the jealous-ghost romantic comedy “Just Like Heaven.”" the first feature directed by Jeff Lowell whose screenwriting credits include “John Tucker Must Die ” could be much worse. But it also could have been with a little more effort a lot better. The cast members are talented and game but they struggle with some borderline-incompetent direction and a series of humorous situations that are less than fresh. I mean sure it’s always hilarious when a beautiful woman is squirted in the chest with mustard or when Mr. Biggs’s arm catches on fire. But an extended bout of flatulence and a dessert-flambéing mishap don’t really yield big laughs. For good measure there’s also an elderly priest and an overweight dog." or else to undermine that sympathy with a brazen display of hackdom. But maybe I should give Mr. Lowell a few points for originality since this is to my knowledge the first rush-to-the-airport climax to feature a talking parrot riding in a taxi." as Kate the ghost represents the control-freak/ice-queen end of the female comedic spectrum pretty well while Lake Bell as Ashley the psychic is perfectly lovely on the sweet scatterbrained end. In the middle is Henry the vet played by the winningly smirky Paul Rudd and there are sidekicks drawn from the usual storeroom: the kooky sister (Lindsay Sloane) and the gay male best friend (Jason Biggs)." and the whole movie feels lazy and underdeveloped in spite of the best efforts of the actors. Mr. Biggs victim of a preposterous and unfunny plot twist lends his knack for ungainly physical comedy but Mr. Rudd is stranded in his own sarcasm. Ms. Bell works hardest of all and proves to be thoroughly charming in what amounts (I hope) to an audition for a better movie sometime in the near future." Paul Rudd (Henry) Lake Bell (Ashley) Lindsay Sloane (Chloe) Stephen Root (Sculptor/Angel) Kali Rocha (Angel) W. Morgan Sheppard (Father Marks) Sam Pancake (Bill) and Jason Biggs (Dan)." John Bailey; edited by Matthew Friedman; music by David Kitay; production designer Cory Lorenzen; produced by Paul Brooks and Peter Safran; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/30/movies/30sile.html
Catalan and German with English subtitles) by Mr. Portabella Carles Santos and Xavier Alberti; director of photography Albert Manera; art director Quim Roy; produced by Films 59. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated." which abruptly reverses its course and begins moving backward like a retreating enemy. It’s a strangely comical and mysterious image (attack of the player piano!) that suggests that this music (or perhaps its lovers) does not appreciate being shut away in a sterile depopulated environment like that of a would-be gallery." despite the hurdles presented by foreign-language film distribution. “The Silence Before Bach” may be nonnarrative but its pleasures are obvious even when its meaning proves rather less so. Through a series of seemingly disconnected set pieces — some transpiring in present-day Europe some in the past — Mr. Portabella creates a film that doesn’t address Bach in the usual biopic terms but instead as a jumping-off point for different visual and aural ideas and associations including the cross-cultural reality of European identity. Following Bach’s influence Mr. Portabella and his film bounce all over the map crisscrossing the continent from Spain to Germany by way of various travelers their harmonies and rhythms." the humming traffic and the prancing horse tap out separate if connecting songs in the beguiling nonnarrative film  “The Silence Before Bach ” from the septuagenarian Spanish auteur  Pere Portabella. You could say that these three make beautiful music together though this observation doesn’t capture the contrapuntal complexity of the film which unfolds note against note scene against scene." the result is an aesthetic pleasure based equally on immediate accessibility and the greatest technical prowess.”  I didn’t find “The Silence Before Bach” immediately accessible though this is far from a complaint. The film demands engagement and a kind of surrender a willingness to enter into a work shaped by correlation metaphor and metonymy by beautiful images and fragments of ideas a work that  locates the music in the twitching of a dog’s ears in the curve of a woman’s belly a child’s song and an adult’s reverie. Like the music it celebrates this is a film made in glory of the world." Mr. Portabella helped produce films by Carlos Saura (“The Delinquents ” 1959) and Luis Buñuel (the Franco-freaking  “Viridiana ” 1961) and started making his own in the late 1960s at times in collaboration with other Catalan artists like Joan Miró. An intermittent fixture on the festival circuit he received the first North American retrospective of his work at the Gene Siskel Film Center in Chicago in 2006 with the Museum of Modern Art following suit a year later with its own survey. According to the critic Jonathan Rosenbaum Mr. Portabella has not allowed any of his work to be transferred to VHS or DVD which is too bad because to judge from “The Silence Before Bach ” he merits a wider audience." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/26/movies/26spar.html
overkill is what Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer do best: as the uncontested titans of the parody genre (with fingers in everything from the “Scary Movie” franchise to the more recent “Epic Movie”) they continue to prove that ridiculing other movies is much easier than making your own." “Meet the Spartans” is best described by the reactions of a row of what appeared to be sixth graders who shared the screening with me. As various Spartans slipped one another the tongue (Eewwww!) a nipple clamp was ripped off with the nipple still attached (Aaarghh!) and the Spartans skipped into battle singing “I Will Survive” (Huh?) I realized the kids had said it all." Carmen Electra (Queen Margo) Ken Davitian (Xerxes) and Kevin Sorbo (Captain)." Shawn Maurer; edited by Peck Prior; music by Christopher Lennertz; production designer William Elliott; produced by Mr. Friedberg Mr. Seltzer and Peter Safran; released by Regency Enterprises and 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." ” King Leonidas (Sean Maguire whose accent veers from London to Glasgow and back again) and 13 faithful boyfriends — er soldiers — face off against the Persians and an avalanche of pop-culture detritus. While a slutty Queen Margo (Carmen Electra of course) tries to distract the men from one another celebrity not-so-lookalikes and unfunny reality-show takeoffs vie for our attention and gag reflex." a flatulent penguin and human testicles smeared with dog food." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/25/movies/25orth.html
an  immigrant from Ukraine first discovered his talent for boxing in 1995 he saw the sport as an escape from the poverty of his Brooklyn childhood. Now 25 Mr. Salita is a professional junior welterweight; he is also a strictly observant Orthodox Jew." Mr. Salita’s focus and striking self-possession never waver. As he attends a White House Hanukkah celebration and enters the ring serenaded by the Hasidic reggae star Matisyahu we see a fighter who understands that showmanship is as important as talent. “I believe that I to a certain extent have found God through boxing ” he says. What’s clear is that he has found his identity — and his fan base — through both." “Orthodox Stance” quietly documents the challenges and rewards of integrating faith and career. Following his subject from Las Vegas to Puerto Rico to the Poconos the director Jason Hutt observes a hectic schedule of training promotional bouts and contract negotiations. Aided by a loyal support staff Mr. Salita studies the Torah in hotel rooms and refuses to fight on the Sabbath; a press conference sponsored by Budweiser however requires more delicate handling." ” a determined young boxer strives to prove that the laws of God and the laws of the ring need not be at odds." Russian Hebrew and Spanish with English subtitles; director of photography Mr. Hutt; edited by Mr. Hutt and Rachel Kittner; music by Mark Orton; produced by Michel Negroponte and Mr. Hutt; released by Oxbow Lake Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/25/movies/25mont.html
3 Weeks and 2 Days ” a ferocious unsentimental often brilliantly directed film about a young woman who helps a friend secure an abortion the camera doesn’t follow the action it expresses consciousness itself. This consciousness — alert to the world and insistently alive — is embodied by a young university student who one wintry day in the late 1980s helps her roommate with an abortion in Ceausescu’s Romania when such procedures were illegal not uncommon and too often fatal. It’s a pitiless violent story that in its telling becomes a haunting and haunted intellectual and aesthetic achievement." Mr. Mungiu has resisted some of the metaphoric readings of his film (say as an attack on the Ceausescu regime) and resisted making overt declarations on abortion. I’ve read more than once that the film is not about abortion (or even an abortion) but rather totalitarianism a take that brings to mind Susan Sontag’s observation that “interpretation is the revenge of the intellect upon art.” This isn’t to say that “4 Months 3 Weeks and 2 Days” isn’t also about human will and the struggle for freedom in the face of state oppression only to suggest that such readings can be limited and limiting. Mr. Mungiu never forgets the palpably real women at the center of his film and one of its great virtues is that neither do you." with English subtitles) and directed by Cristian Mungiu; director of photography Oleg Mutu; edited by Dana Bunescu; production designer Mihaela Poenaru; produced by Mr. Mutu and Mr. Mungiu.; released by IFC Films and Red Envelope Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes. This film is not rated." Vlad Ivanov (Domnu Bebe) Laura Vasiliu (Gabita) Alex Potocean (Adi) and Luminita Gheorghiu (Doamna Radu)." Mr. Mungiu opens “4 Months” on the pale lithe Gabita (Laura Vasiliu) moving about a cramped university dorm room rearranging this and that and packing a plastic tablecloth in a travel bag while exchanging seeming banalities with Otilia (Anamaria Marinca sensational and impeccably controlled). Because Mr. Mungiu writes words rather than exposition he doesn’t explain what’s going on or why. It takes time for you to find the meaning in his words and the pauses in between them. You sift through naturalistic conversations that — much like the dorm’s grubby furnishings its darkly lighted hallways and the mewling kittens Otilia finds in those grim passages — seem artless more like real life than aesthetic choices." it soon emerges has just begun a harrowing journey that will take her from one bleak hotel to another (where the customer is always and often comically wrong) and through a labyrinth of near-pitch-black streets and darker human behavior. Otilia will stand by Gabita who will almost collapse in turn and go up against her own lover Adi (Alex Potocean) and a grotesque back-alley abortionist cruelly known as Mr. Bebe (Vlad Ivanov terrifying) who will test the limits of the women’s friendship. Throughout her odyssey Mr. Mungiu and his camera will keep watch on Otilia without close-ups speeches false morality or judgment." and black-market deals over cigarettes and human bodies. The verisimilitude can be startling enveloping. You see the history of this place etched in its people in Otilia’s determined face and Gabita’s lissome form which sways against difficulties like a reed. You see it too in the camerawork that like Otilia never relinquishes its intense focus yet seems to catch details — like the dog that passes near her when she first tries to book a hotel room — with the lightness of a happy accident. Hours later during an unbearably tense scene when she’s surrounded by barking dogs on a desolate street you realize there are no accidents here just art." 3 Weeks and 2 Days” is nothing if not a triumph of aesthetic choices of fluidly moving camerawork rigorous framing and sustained long shots that allow you to explore the image rather than try to catch hold of it. The film starts off quietly despite Gabita’s jitters but subtly shifts registers once Otilia leaves to run some errands. With the camera sometimes leading and sometimes following Otilia cruises through the long dorm halls drops in on some other students and buys cigarettes from a resident vendor. There’s urgency in her step despite the casualness of these exchanges an exigency that’s expressed both by the worry in her face and the way Mr. Mungiu keeps her steadily locked in his camera’s sights." 3 WEEKS AND 2 DAYS" ” which was awarded the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival last year only to be shut out from Academy Award consideration a few weeks ago by the philistines who select the foreign-language nominees. The Oscars are absurd yet they can help a microscopically budgeted foreign-language film find a supportive audience. And “4 Months” deserves to be seen by the largest audience possible partly because it offers a welcome alternative to the coy trivializing attitude toward abortion now in vogue in American fiction films but largely because it marks the emergence of an important new talent in the Romanian writer and director Cristian Mungiu." the 2005 drama “The Death of Mr. Lazarescu.” Directed by Cristi Puiu — and shot by Oleg Mutu the ingenious director of photography for “4 Months” — “The Death of Mr. Lazarescu” explores the intersection of the social and the personal on the human body and the incalculable trivial and monumental ways our bodies are at once situated in the world as objects and subjects. Over the course of the torturous inept hospitalization that eventually realizes the threat of the film’s title Mr. Lazarescu’s body becomes a field of meaning a landscape of despair and a site of brutal exchange among other more robust bodies." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/25/movies/25alic.html
“Alice’s House” anchors its soap-opera plotlines — adultery avarice and incipient blindness — in the tired body and vaguely ruined features of its dreamy heroine. In this house of men women are expected only to wait and witness." Vinicius Zinn (Lucas) Ricardo Vilaça (Edinho) Felipe Massuia (Junior) Zécarlos Machado (Lindomar) and Berta Zemel (Dona Jacira)." libidinous “Alice’s House” is the best argument against marriage and motherhood to appear in many a year." with English subtitles) by Mr. Teixeira Julio Pessoa Sabina Anzuategui and Marcelo Gomes based on a story by Mr. Teixeira; director of photography Mauro Pinheiro Jr.; edited by Vânia Debs; production designer Marcos Pedroso; produced by Patrick Leblanc and Zita Carvalhosa; released by Figa Films/Vitagraph. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." three teenage sons who do little but lounge and thieve and a husband (Zécarlos Machado) whose cabdriving job offers plenty of opportunities to stray Alice (the wonderful Carla Ribas) has few distractions from her menial work at a nail salon. So when a lover from her past reappears bearing gifts and compliments she is more than ready to fall." and it shows in the way he insinuates his camera into the minutiae of daily life. Focusing on observation over declaration he simply allows the film’s overabundance of hormones to seep into almost every exchange. When one brother asks another “Why do you let Mum grab you all the time? ” the jealousy in the question hangs in the air unexplored but contributing to the general atmosphere of sexual and emotional dysfunction." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/25/movies/25move.html
you know that Raya will repeatedly clash with Bishop go over to a rival squad and return to Bishop’s side for a triumphant finale. You also know that she will flagrantly disregard the angry warnings of her academically minded mom (a heart-wrenching Melanie Nicholls-King) and concentrate on dance at the expense of schoolwork. And that when she inevitably wins the big prize her mother will be there and have a change of heart." ” a feature by the director Ian Iqbal Rashid (“Touch of Pink”) about a disaffected young woman competing in dance contests is the latest incarnation of the up-by-your-bootstraps musical drama. There’s nary a twist you don’t see coming. But the film’s strong acting spectacular dance routines and culturally specific details turn clichés into catharsis. It’s the sort of film that sends you home with a spring in your step." but blew a scholarship qualifying exam (a setback she has kept secret). Now she’s a sullen loner who clashes with nearly everyone including a longtime friend named Michelle (Tré Armstrong) a stepper and troubled student who accuses Raya of being a cultural traitor and “slumming.”" spying a book in the hands of Bishop’s fleet-footed teammate and kid brother Quake (Brennan Gademans)." 000 top prize. She’s good enough to dance with any team and she’s ruthless in her choice. She considers joining Michelle’s team then hooks up with one run by a male friend (and potential beau) named Bishop (Dwain Murphy) because as the script makes clear the world of stepping is intensely sexist segregating teams by gender and always awarding the top prize to male teams. (The screenwriter Annmarie Morais herself a descendant of Caribbean immigrants in Toronto embroiders the story with details that feel lived rather than researched.)" ’ ” Quake replies. “I’m reading Tolstoy.”" André Pienaar; edited by Susan Maggi; music by Andrew Lockington; production designer Aidan Leroux; choreography by Hi-Hat; produced by Jennifer Kawaja Julia Sereny and Brent Barclay; released by Paramount Vantage. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." in short the kind of movie that sinks or swims on its performances and atmosphere. “How She Move” is aces in both departments from its magnetic cast of skilled dancer-actors to its script which alternates eloquently rough (yet rarely profane) zingers with exchanges that strengthen the film’s themes while further defining its smart striving characters." a recent Juilliard graduate stars as Raya a young woman from Jane-Finch Corridor a multiethnic part of Toronto. Raya the descendant of Caribbean immigrants who excels both at academics and stepping an acrobatic form of dance that uses hands feet and sometimes props as percussive instruments." Raya had good reason to choke during that big test. Her beloved older sister — a local legend in stepping contests briefly glimpsed in flashbacks dancing with a preadolescent Raya — had recently died from a drug overdose. To the film’s credit this tragedy which would have been an arbitrary tear-jerking touch in other movies hangs over every frame even in fleeting details like the shot of Raya reading “Jane Eyre.”" Dwain Murphy (Bishop) Tré Armstrong (Michelle) Brennan Gademans (Quake) Shawn Desman (Trey) Kevin Duhaney (E. C.) Melanie Nicholls-King (Faye Green) Keyshia Cole (herself) and DeRay Davis (himself)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/25/movies/25lost.html
with English subtitles) by Li Yu and Fang Li; director of photography Wang Yu; edited by Zeng Jian; music by Payman Yazdanian; art director Liu Wei Xin; produced by Fang Li; released by Red Envelope Entertainment/New Yorker Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. This film is not rated." and in which every human relationship can be reduced to a transaction a deal. Ping-guo and An-kun industrious young people from a Northeastern  province are unsurprisingly overwhelmed by this way of life but so in their own way are Mr. and Mrs. Lin. Ms. Jin one of Taiwan’s finest actresses and Mr. Leung a durable star of the Hong Kong cinema rescue their characters from easy caricature." the window washer is married to Ping-guo (Fan Bingbing) who works at the Gold Basin Massage Palace rubbing the feet of tired businessmen and deflecting their roving hands. Her boss Mr. Lin (Tony Leung Ka Fai) is a rough character as yet unpolished by money an unapologetic gambler and womanizer. One afternoon he finds Ping-guo passed out in his office and his attempt to take advantage of her turns from a clumsy pass into a rape. An-kun who happens to be washing the window of Mr. Lin’s office and witnesses the assault —  this is what I mean by improbable —  tries first to attack the older more powerful man and then to blackmail him." Fan Bingbing (Ping-guo) Tong Da Wei (An-kun) Elaine Jin (Mrs. Lin) and Zeng Mei Hui Zi (Xiao-mei)." along with the city itself they help give “Lost in Beijing” a human complexity that cuts against the schematic artifice of its story." at last count something like 17 million stories in this naked city and Ms. Li who wrote the screenplay for “Lost in Beijing” with Fang Li relates a tale that is at once representative of the social and economic tensions afflicting 21st-century China and ripely improbably melodramatic. The director and her cast work in a rough naturalistic style but the narrative offers both the pleasures and the limitations of old-fashioned class-conscious pulp. In spite of its raw explicit moments the film is at heart a sturdy morality tale about innocence and corruption wealth and want sex and power." “Lost in Beijing” begins a curious not entirely successful transition from melodrama to domestic comedy. Mrs. Lin (Elaine Jin) who is infertile takes her revenge on her husband by sleeping with An-kun even as Mr. Lin starts to see his own possible paternity as a neat solution for everyone. The baby he reasons will save his marriage and the more than 100 000 yuan he will pay  Ping-guo and An-kun for their trouble will assuage his guilt and help the young couple toward a better and more prosperous life." ” the Chinese capital is an endless vista of glassy high-rises. Closer to the ground in the lyrical documentary montages that frame Li Yu’s modern urban melodrama the city is a hive of human work and pleasure seeking. There are tango clubs and dive bars car dealerships and open-air markets nouveau riches in their Mercedes-Benzes and homeless people stretched out on benches." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/25/movies/25brea.html
” Sarah Michelle Gellar plays Trista a k a Sorrow a terrorized pop star who becomes Fingers’s property after he buys her contract to settle a debt. Mr. Fraser’s character a thug with a soft spot impulsively hides her from Fingers and falls in love with her against his better judgment." “The Air I Breathe” ultimately registers as a gangster movie with delusions of grandeur." ” “Crash” and “Babel ” but the connections in “The Air I Breathe” are paradoxical philosophic abstractions lacking geographic and cultural resonance. In the first episode “Happiness ” Forest Whitaker — playing against type as a cowering milquetoast with a low-level banking job — overhears his colleagues planning to bet on a rigged horse race. Impulsively betting his life savings he runs afoul of the scheme’s mastermind Fingers (Andy Garcia) a gangster who mutilates debtors’ hands; his only hope of avoiding that fate is to rob a bank." Walt Lloyd; edited by Robert Hoffman; music by Marcelo Zarvos; production designer Bernardo Trujillo; produced by Emilio Diez Barroso Darlene Caamaño Loquet and Paul Schiff; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." however you may find yourself scratching your head and wondering if there was any purpose to this sleek little gizmo." sexual situations and intense violence." ” Fingers’s soft-spoken hit man (Brendan Fraser) is instructed to take his boss’s hotheaded young nephew Tony (Emile Hirsch) out on the town and show him the ropes. While night crawling the henchman whose talent for seeing into the future is prized by his employer has ominous flashes of how the evening will end; unexpectedly his visions don’t pan out. Rid of a gift that has also been a curse he experiences the same giddy sense of liberation as Mr. Whitaker’s reckless gambler and bank robber." a Korean-American director and screenwriter who in the production notes calls it a reflection of his “journey as an Asian-American” in a “bimodal world ” “The Air I Breathe” smothers in its own pretensions. Among other things Mr. Lee declares it is a film noir variation of “The Wizard of Oz” and an exploration of the theme of character as destiny. Whew! That’s an awful lot of concepts for one movie to juggle." the film was inspired by a Chinese proverb that divides life into four categories: happiness sorrow pleasure and love. Three of the four vignettes feature an unnamed character portrayed by a star who represents one of the basic feelings. (But what about anger an emotion that is plentiful in a movie with very little pleasure and little or no genuine happiness?)" ” the final episode stars Kevin Bacon as a doctor who desperately tries to save the love of his life (Julie Delpy) — who happens to be his best friend’s wife — after she is bitten by a poisonous snake and requires a transfusion of a rare blood type. Circular in structure the movie to make its final connection returns to Mr. Whitaker’s character in a delirious life-or-death moment." Sarah Michelle Gellar (Sorrow) Kevin Bacon (Love) Forest Whitaker (Happiness) Emile Hirsch (Tony) Andy Garcia (Fingers) Cecilia Suarez (Allison) and Julie Delpy (Gina)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/25/movies/25untr.html
Mark R. Brinker and Allison Burnett based on a story by Mr. Fyvolent and Mr. Brinker; director of photography Anastas Michos; edited by David Rosenbloom; music by Christopher Young; production designer Paul Eads; produced by Steven Pearl Andy Cohen Tom Rosenberg Gary Lucchesi and Howard Koch Jr.; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." in which he promises viewers to kill the animal once his site gets a certain number of hits. Jennifer the smartest investigator in her unit immediately intuits that this is just a prelude to something much worse." Ore. explain why the Web site is untraceable. It takes a cyberwizard like Jennifer to catch a cyberwizard. Meanwhile the murders are carried out with different elaborate devices each of which suggests a high-tech variation of something out of Edgar Allan Poe." no one would die." a widowed single mother who lives in a dark drafty house with her own mother Stella (Mary Beth Hurt); her 8-year-old daughter Annie (Perla Haney-Jardine); and a cat with a sixth sense. The place is begging to be invaded by a kidnapper and the movie can’t resist toying with your fear that it is only a matter of time before either Jennifer or her daughter or both land in the killer’s gadget-clogged cellar." Billy Burke (Detective Eric Box) Colin Hanks (Griffin Dowd) Joseph Cross (Owen) Perla Haney-Jardine (Annie) and Mary Beth Hurt (Stella)." the director was a producer and director on “L.A. Law” and “Hill Street Blues” in the 1980s and “NYPD Blue” in the 1990s. His best-known film “Primal Fear ” made a star of Edward Norton in 1996. He has the clammy visual vocabulary and jittery rhythm of the crime-fighting movie down cold." ” as I do as a repugnant example of the voyeurism it pretends to condemn. Or you may stand back and see it as a cleverly conceived slickly executed genre movie that ranks somewhere between “Seven” and the “Saw” movies in sadistic ingenuity." the faster the victims die. A counter records the accelerating number of hits as each new torture is unveiled. More than 27 million viewers rush to watch the spectacle of a woman strung upside down from the ceiling as she is lowered inch by inch over rotating blades. Another victim is strapped inside a tank of water into which sulfuric acid is slowly dripped. Although his head and shoulders remain above water the skin below peels away like wads of pink tissue paper as his eyes bug out and his face turns crimson." you sense the shadows under the surface. The clench of her jaw the taut tendons of her neck and her rigid posture evoke a loner bravely gritting her teeth as she gazes steadily into the darkness." ” a bleak rain-washed horror thriller whose predatory villain delivers a scolding lecture about Internet voyeurism and the dark side of human nature? That lecture arrives as a contemptuous “I told you so” at the end of the movie after the designated fiend has streamed live video of several of his hideous crimes on his own Web site killwithme.com." Ms. Lane succeeds in making Jennifer a conflicted woman of some depth who is torn between her professional commitment and her family. The role of a high-strung thoroughbred with a streak of stubborn independence is one she has played before." “Untraceable” leaves a sharp lingering aftertaste. When the killer crows that it won’t be long before we are paying to download commercially sponsored atrocities on our cellphones you have the uneasy feeling that he may be right." who hovers protectively around her but keeps his hands off. She also has a nerdy younger partner Griffin (Colin Hanks Tom’s son) whose habit of making blind dates with women on the Internet leads him into the killer’s lair." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/25/movies/25trai.html
the movie follows the exploits of three aging bottom feeders and their small circle of enablers. There’s Ricky (Robb Wells) a fast-talking fabulist with Elvis hair and a sticky-fingered daughter Trinity (Lydia Lawson-Baird); Julian (John Paul Tremblay) a stoic drunk fixated on stealing large amounts of loose change; and the myopic Bubbles (Mike Smith) a helpless man-child whose kitten-infested shack is facing much-needed demolition." ” only Canadian — and not funny." private lap dancing and universal bad taste." boozing and cutting into one another’s lap dances “Trailer Park Boys: The Movie” flirts with the mockumentary format without buying it a ring. The script (by Mr. Wells and Mike Clattenburg who also directed) is more creative with profanity than plot though Ricky’s post-incarceration attempts to reclaim his lady love (Lucy DeCoutere) are handled with unexpected sweetness. Let’s face it though: what woman wouldn’t choose new breasts a lesbian lover and a job at a “gentleman’s club” over a suitor who lives in a car?" Robb Wells (Ricky) Mike Smith (Bubbles) John Dunsworth (Mr. Lahey) Patrick Roach (Randy) Lucy DeCoutere (Lucy) and Lydia Lawson-Baird (Trinity)." Los Angeles Seattle Detroit and Burlington Vt." based on the television series; director of photography Miroslaw Baszak; edited by Jeremy Harty; music by Blain Morris; production designer Hardkhrome; produced by Mr. Clattenburg Barrie Dunn and Michael Volpe; released by Screen Media Films. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/25/movies/25ramb.html
in 1988 he was involved in some cold war endgame stuff in Afghanistan and his action-movie franchise begun in 1982 with “First Blood ” seemed to be sputtering toward self-parody. Since then Rambo has faded into semi-obscurity though his name is sometimes still used perhaps a bit unfairly as a synonym for revanchist go-it-alone militarism." for most of its fairly brief running time a blood bath punctuated by occasional bouts of clumsy dialogue. There are beheadings mutilations disembowelings — enough gore to rival “Apocalypto.”" but Mr. Stallone is old school in this regard. Blowing heads off and slicing abdomens is man’s work. Ms. Benz is on hand to scream gasp fall in the mud and huddle in a damp bamboo cage waiting to be raped by the Burmese bad guys or rescued by Rambo." and maybe also Sylvester Stallone who directed and wrote (with Art Monterastelli) the newest “Rambo ” and who plays the title character. When we first encounter him this weary warrior has retreated from geopolitics passing the time at a remote river station in the Thai jungle where he hunts poisonous snakes and dabbles in blacksmithing. Old Rambo seems kind of depressed to tell the truth until his wrath is stirred by the viciousness of the Burmese Army." based on characters created by David Morrell; director of photography Glen MacPherson; edited by Sean Albertson; music by Brian Tyler; production designer Franco-Giacomo Carbone; produced by Avi Lerner Kevin King-Templeton and John Thompson; released by Lionsgate Films. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes." the political is always personal. He temporarily joins the Karen cause because some Western aid workers carrying only Bibles medical supplies and an air of sanctimony hire him to ferry them upriver into Burma. He is skeptical about their mission and their leader (Paul Schulze) seems like kind of a jerk but something about Sarah (Julie Benz) the only woman in the group touches Rambo’s soul. This is not a matter of sexual desire but rather the kind of spiritual awakening that can be expressed only in misty abstractions. (“What you’re trying to do is change what is?” “And what is?” “Go home.”)" I wondered whom he would be fighting this time. In “Rambo: First Blood Part II ” the cumbersomely titled centerpiece of the earlier trilogy he went back to Vietnam to collect payback both from the Communists and indirectly from the pusillanimous desk jockeys who supposedly messed up that war the first time around. Given this résumé it seemed reasonable to assume that now he might be heading back to Central Asia to hunt down Osama bin Laden a job no one else seems inclined to tackle." but to dwell on Rambo’s ideological significance was (and still is) to miss his kinship with the samurais and gunslingers of older movies. Mr. Stallone is smart enough — or maybe dumb enough though I tend to think not — to present the mythic dimensions of the character without apology or irony. His face looks like a misshapen chunk of granite and his acting is only slightly more expressive but the man gets the job done. Welcome back." no one calls it Myanmar.) As a precredit montage of actual news clips reminds us the military government of that nation has been engaged not only in widespread authoritarian abuses but also in a brutal long-running campaign against the Karen ethnic minority. And it is with the Karen that Rambo once roused from his weary cynicism throws in his lot. No longer the bloody avatar of wounded American pride he seems more inclined toward humanitarian intervention — a one-man N.G.O. with a machete. Will he show up in Darfur next?" Julie Benz (Sarah) Paul Schulze (Burnett) Matthew Marsden (Schoolboy) Graham McTavish (Lewis) and Tim Kang (En-Joo)." sadistic genocidal violence and righteous retribution for same." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/23/movies/23band.html
humanistic vision that U2 has presented in songs and public statements for more than 20 years. When the band performs its hit “One ” the lyrics take on new meaning." Tom Krueger director of 3-D photography Peter Anderson; edited by Olivier Wicki; music by U2 (Bono the Edge Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr.); 3-D and digital image producer Steve Schklair; produced by Jon Shapiro Peter Shapiro John Modell and Ms. Owens; released by National Geographic Entertainment and 3ality Digital.  In Manhattan at the Loew’s Imax Theater at Lincoln Square 1998 Broadway at 68th Street. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes. This film is rated G." ” which stitches together three performances by this Irish rock band during a recent tour of South America is not merely a technical landmark — shot entirely in digital 3D — but also an aesthetic one in that it’s the first Imax movie that deserves to be called a work of art." Catherine Owens — one of the movie’s two directors who is also in charge of production design for the band’s live shows — has brazenly ignored the usual stipulations about making a 3-D film. She favors quick edits and slow dissolves rather than long takes and hard cuts. Throughout she layers the screen with multiple planes of information: long shots and medium shots of the musicians images of the crowd close-up details of graphics from the big screen that the band performs in front of  that make the designs   abstract and merge them with the performers." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/23/movies/23doc.html
” a nonfiction feature about the life of the novelist inventor and cult figure Harold Louis  Humes known as Doc starts with an audio snippet in which Mr. Humes insists that the best classroom lectures are those in which the speaker seems to be engaged in a perpetual search for his subject." who was born in 1926 and died in 1992 came of age in Paris during the 1950s. He wrote the politically radical novels “The Underground City” and “Men Die”; helped create the New American Cinema Group with Jonas Mekas and others;  founded The Paris Review with Mr. Plimpton and Peter Matthiessen; advocated massage and marijuana; designed a fireproof waterproof paper house; and gave lectures to anyone anywhere at the drop of a hat." Norman Mailer William Styron and Timothy Leary) “Doc” is one part cultural analysis three parts home movie." Ms.  Humes discovered through a Freedom of Information Act filing that the government had kept tabs on her father since the ’50s. Even paranoids can have real enemies." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18taxi.html
he does allow those who defend the use of torture on legal and strategic grounds to have their say. By now surely the empty semantic debate about the appropriateness of the word torture has been settled but it is still important to recall that in the months after the 9/11 attacks the willingness to consider the necessity of extreme and previously taboo tactics was widespread. It was Vice President Dick Cheney who noted in a television interview that the fight against Islamic extremism would necessitate a trip to “the dark side ” as administration lawyers prepared (and later publicly defended) briefs and memos limiting habeas corpus and the applicability of the Geneva Conventions." “Taxi to the Dark Side” charts a path to Guantánamo Bay and Abu Ghraib all the while insisting that the brutal treatment of prisoners in those places was hardly the work of a few “bad apples ” as Pentagon officials said.  Instead the sexual humiliation waterboarding and other well-documented practices were methods sanctioned at the very top of the chain of command. How those methods were intended to work — to break down psychological defenses to induce not only physical discomfort but also a kind of madness — is laid out in interviews with behavioral scientists and also with professional interrogators and their victims." directed and narrated by Alex Gibney; directors of photography Maryse Alberti and Greg Andracke; edited by Sloane Klevin; music by Ivor Guest and Robert Logan; produced by Mr. Gibney Eva Orner and Susannah Shipman; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." a longtime F.B.I. interrogator argues that kindness can be a more effective way to manipulate a prisoner and gain information than cruelty while young men who worked at Bagram and Abu Ghraib testify to the atmosphere of sadism in those places. Their matter-of-fact tone provides in some ways the most powerful support for Mr. Gibney’s view of the corrosive effects of torture on American traditions of decency and the rule of law." ” films that show the same combination of investigative thoroughness and moral indignation that animates “Taxi.” The germ of this documentary’s story is the case of Dilawar a taxi driver who was detained in Afghanistan in 2002 and who died in American custody at the prison in Bagram a few months later. Though Dilawar was never charged with any crime — and was never shown to have any connection with Al Qaeda or the Taliban — he was subjected to horrifically harsh treatment: deprived of sleep; suspended from a grated ceiling by his wrists; kicked and kneed in the legs until he could no longer stand." some of whom faced courts-martial in connection with Dilawar’s death; with a fellow prisoner at Bagram; and with  Carlotta Gall and Tim Golden who reported on  Dilawar’s story for The New York Times. “Taxi to the Dark Side ” however does not simply recount a single awful anecdote from the early days of the war on terror; rather it traces the spread of a central controversial tactic in that war. The burden of Mr. Gibney’s argument laid out soberly and in daunting detail is that what happened to Dilawar was not anomalous but rather represented an early instance of what would soon be a widespread policy." detailed and not always easy to watch. Plenty of moviegoers would happily pay  not to think about the issues raised in “Taxi to the Dark Side.” But sooner or later we will need to understand what has happened in this country in the last seven years and this documentary will be essential to that effort." the presidency of George W. Bush will end but the consequences of Mr. Bush’s policies and the arguments about them are likely to be with us for a long time. As next Jan. 20 draws near there is an evident temptation among many journalists as well as politicians seeking to replace Mr. Bush to close the book and move ahead an impulse that makes the existence of documentaries like Alex Gibney’s “Taxi to the Dark Side” all the more vital. If recent American history is ever going to be discussed with the necessary clarity and ethical rigor this film will be essential." both strategic and moral." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18stil.html
Sun Jianmin and Guan Na “Still Life” unfolds as a series of minor events and incidental bits and pieces with little obvious connective tissue. Things happen though not necessarily as a consequence of what took place  in the previous scene. Almost as soon as he enters  the doomed town Sanming walks into a scam (he answers the con with a flick of a switchblade) visits his truculent brother-in-law (who barely looks up from his rice bowl) and joins the ranks of the local work force by picking up a sledgehammer. After about 40 minutes Mr. Jia suddenly shifts his attention to Shen Hong who also comes to  Fengjie in time to see the 2 000-year-old town die." ” which won the grand prize at the 2006 Venice  Film Festival the blood and the sweat run directly into the Yangtze River where they mingle with more than a few tears. The movie takes place amid the clatter and misery of the Three Gorges Dam which cuts across the Yangtze in central  China.  The largest dam in the world Three Gorges is a site of great cultural and political strife because of both environmental and humanitarian concerns. More than one million people have been displaced because of the dam (more are expected to follow) evicted from their homes by a ravenous hunger for power electric and otherwise that is washing them and history away." but Mr. Jia’s interest lies in visual ideas and human behavior not agendas. Elegantly photographed by Yu Likwai in high-definition digital video the movie opens with a series of nearly seamless seemingly contiguous lateral pans across men women and children congregated in a boat on the Yangtze near the dam. The camera sweeps across the passengers slowly enough so that you can see each person alternately laughing chattering and in repose. After exploring the formal possibilities of the long shot in his breakthrough  film “Platform” (2000) Mr. Jia has again started to edge near his characters. In “Still Life” he uses human bodies as moving space to borrow Michelangelo Antonioni’s peerless phrase but with enormous tenderness." with English subtitles) and directed by Jia Zhang-ke; director of photography Yu Likwai; edited by Khung Jinlei; music by Lim Giong; art directors Liang Jindong and Liu Qiang; produced by Xu Pengle Wang Tianyun and Zhu Jiong; released by New Yorker Films. At the ImaginAsian Theater 239 East 59th Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes. This film is not rated." evident in the younger filmmaker’s manipulation of real time and the ways he expresses his ideas  with images  rather than through dialogue and narrative. The drifting rootless men and women in many of his movies and the wide-open nominally empty landscapes through which they on occasion wander further underscore the resemblances between the filmmakers. Even so when Mr. Jia’s characters roam through the crumbling town in “Still Life” — which is being demolished in anticipation of an engineered inundation — it’s impossible not to think even further back in cinema history to Rossellini’s postwar films like “Paisan” and “Germany Year Zero ” works in which the director’s moral position is etched into every human face and fallen building." Jia Zhang-ke is among the most strikingly gifted filmmakers working today whom  you have probably never heard of. During the past decade he has made some half-dozen documentary-inflected fictions and several documentaries that weigh the human cost of China’s often brutal dehumanizing shift from state-controlled communism to state-sanctioned capitalism a price paid in the blood and sweat of people  who have paradoxically inspired him to create works of sublime soulful art." Zhao Tao (Shen Hong) Li Zhu Bing (Guo Bing) Wang Hongwei (Wang Dong Ming) Ma Lizhen (Missy Ma) and Lan Zhou (Huang Mao)." alien place — where government graffiti mark the water levels that will swallow the town — “Still Life” has been painted with a lightness of touch and with none of the hollow lugubriousness familiar from some of the recent Chinese imported pageants and epics. Mr. Jia’s characters are always of their historical moment but not necessarily its martyrs. Neither is he a slave to history. His work exists on a continuum with the  modernist masters among other influences but he is very much an artist of his own specific time and place. His canvas is China where as the indelible image of a tightrope walker in “Still Life” suggests people navigate the fine line between heaven and earth." culture language and landscape. The same astonishingly beautiful mountains soar above both their heads. The two are routinely dwarfed by their environments by the ruined buildings and surrounding gorges alike. The connections between the natural landscape and the man-made one between the easy beauty of immutable nature and the  eerie  beauty of devastated culture (Mr. Jia is a poet of decay) are powerful and unsettling. The dam may not outlast either the gorges or the Yangtze but if it does you can always see the image   of  one of the  gorges   printed on a  Chinese  currency bill yet another reminder of a disposable commodified past." Mr. Jia has found a great subject in his rapidly changing country and its people who seem to be casualties of a different more elusive war. The two principal characters in “Still Life ” Sanming (Han Sanming) and Shen Hong (Zhao Tao) land  in  Fengjie  separately and never actually meet bound only by a shared desire to find their errant spouses. Sanming a fireplug whose muscular arms and back owe something to his time toiling in one of the country’s coal mines arrives  in Fengjie hoping to find his runaway wife and the 16-year-old daughter he has never met. For her part the willowy more overtly middle-class Shen Hong a nurse is searching for the husband who stopped coming home two years earlier." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18pala.html
however is not interested only in reconstructing a vanished moment of high intoxicating promise in his heroine’s (and his generation’s) youth. He is equally concerned with what comes after with the drift disappointment and compromise that seem for his characters to constitute both the legacy of Tiananmen and the mundane facts of postgraduate life. He follows Yu Hong and Zhou Wei as they make their way across the splintered landscape of adulthood and takes note via television clips of the changing world around them." “Summer Palace” moves with the swiftness and syncopation of a pop song. Like Jean-Luc Godard in the 1960s Mr. Lou favors breathless tracking shots and snappy jump cuts and like Mr. Godard’s his camera is magnetized by female beauty. But Ms. Lei a tough and uninhibited actress is not simply the object of the film’s gaze; Yu Hong’s resilience and vulnerability are the film’s emotional core and its feverish rhythms follow the chaotic pattern of her desires." rivals and hookups who round out Mr. Lou’s portrait — are hardly ordinary university students. Or if they are their matriculation comes at an extraordinary moment. Yu Hong arrives in Beijing in 1988 and her first year at the university already full of emotional and sexual upheaval ends with the pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square and their violent suppression by the Chinese government." while Yu Hong finds an office job in a provincial Chinese city. Fashions change. Rickety bicycles and battered envelopes give way to S.U.V.’s and e-mail. There are love affairs a suicide an abortion and in the midst of it all Yu Hong clings to a belief in her own future that is all the more poignant for being somewhat vague." this effort leaves some loose ends and blurred impressions." freshly arrived at Beijing University from a provincial town she shows a romantic sometimes reckless appetite for experience confiding in her diary a longing to live with maximum intensity. She satisfies this desire in the movie’s heady headlong first half through a series of friendships and flirtations most of all her fierce jealous on-and-off relationship with Zhou Wei (Xiaodong Guo) a skinny brooding intellectual and the love of her life." whims and needs — that is the lived and living essence of history." Lei Hao (Yu Hong) Xueyun Bai (Wang Bo) Lin Cui (Xiao Jun) Long Duan (Tang Caoshi) and Ling Hu (Li Ti)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Lou Feng Mei and Ma Yingli; director of photography Qing Hua; edited by Mr. Lou and Jian Zeng; music by Peyman Yazdanian; production designer Weixin Liu; produced by Sylvain Bursztein Li Fang Mr. Lou and An Nai; released by Palm Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes. This film is not rated." ” Yu Hong (Lei Hao) reflects that her college years were the “most confused” time in her life. A lot of us might feel similarly but Yu Hong the beautiful and passionate heroine of this beautiful and passionate film is something of a special case." Mr. Lou shows some affinity with Jia Zhang-ke another frequently embattled Chinese director (whose new film “Still Life ” also opens in New York today). “Summer Palace” can be seen as a companion piece or even a sort of sequel to Mr. Jia’s “Platform ” which followed a group of Chinese young people through an earlier period of cultural and social transition from the early 1970s into the 1980s. But Mr. Lou whose earlier films include the noirish “Souzhou River” and the moody period thriller “Purple Butterfly ” is temperamentally less of a realist than Mr. Jia." ” which was first shown in competition at the 2006 Cannes Film Festival is remarkable for its candor about politics and sex. Perhaps unsurprisingly its honesty has not been appreciated by Chinese authorities who banned Mr. Lou from making movies for five years after he brought it to Cannes without their permission. But the film’s ardent unsentimental embrace of youthful idealism is likely to strike a chord with anyone who can recall — or imagine — such feelings overtaking his or her own life." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18zero.html
“Day Zero ” which imagines a time in the near future when the war has widened is the last thing movie audiences will want to consume. In this fantasy of the day after tomorrow coordinated suicide bombings stretch from Ankara to Cairo. An unspecified act of terrorism has wreaked havoc in Los Angeles and the draft has just been reinstated." Aaron purchases a Bowflex  exercise machine and in a desperate lunge at masculinity patronizes a streetwalker. Eventually he shaves his head acquires tattoos and barks at himself in a mirror like a would-be Travis Bickle. The character is in a word ludicrous." a crazy writer and a macho hothead. Although these alleged pals share no similarities of background or common interests the actors playing them at least sustain the illusion that their characters have  been friends for years.  In real life they would very likely have nothing to do with one another." George Rifkin (Chris Klein) is a lawyer who begs his wealthy father to use his friendship with a senator to keep him out of the Army. When the request is denied he contemplates chopping off a finger. In a fit of frustration George visits a gay bar where he is beaten up after hurling abuse at men whose declared homosexuality exempts them from service. George’s one redeeming characteristic is his steady devotion to his wife Molly (Ginnifer Goodwin) a  five-year cancer survivor." Aaron Feller (Elijah Wood) is an emotionally unstable runaway who published a successful if not wholly original novel. For the last seven years this quivering virginal man-child with wide frightened eyes has been seeing a therapist (Ally Sheedy) who finds him so boring she studies crossword puzzles while he bleats his complaints." ” directed by Bryan Gunnar Cole from a screenplay by Rob Malkani indicates that the movie which is too cautious to take political sides has an inflated idea of its own importance. Its view of the near future may be vaguely plausible and its performances persuasive but its formulaic construction internal inconsistencies and fuzzy ending undermine its integrity. It has nothing to say about the big issues —  manhood war and friendship —  that hasn’t been explored with more depth and honesty in a hundred other movies." Matthew Clark; edited by Mr. Cole and Bill Pankow; music by Erin O’Hara; produced by Anthony Moody; released by Glass Key. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." Chris Klein (Rifkin) Jon Bernthal (Dixon) Ginnifer Goodwin (Molly) Elisabeth Moss (Patricia) Ally Sheedy (Dr. Reynolds) and Sofia Vassilieva (Mara)." ” Dixon (Jon Bernthal) is a cabdriver and outspoken patriot who loves a good fight. Dixon falls in love with Patricia (Elisabeth Moss) a sociology student but neglects to tell her he has been drafted until the very last minute. Early in the movie he and George come to blows at a party while arguing the pros and cons of the war but all seems to have been forgiven in their next scene together." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18teet.html
Brad have grown up is marred only by the belching cooling towers of a nearby nuclear power plant. Now and then the camera peers over the brilliant foliage with a smirking sense of mischief to observe these twin towers releasing ominous black plumes into the atmosphere. The movie implies that radiation is responsible for Dawn’s condition not to mention her stepmother’s declining health and Brad’s satanic inclinations; everyone in the family may have mutated." John Waters parody No Nukes protest movie twisted sex-education film quasi-feminist fable outrageous stunt: Mitchell Lichtenstein’s clever crude comedy “Teeth ” is all these and more." ebony-eyebrowed John Hensley of “Nip/Tuck ” whose character on that show Matt McNamara attempted to circumcise himself in an early episode. Given the knowing attitude of “Teeth ” Mr. Lichtenstein an actor turned writer-director may have intentionally cast him as a sly reference." the title character of “Candy ” Terry Southern and Mason Hoffenberg’s satirical novel as a contemporary mutant teen angel unknowingly afflicted with the mythical condition known as vagina dentata (a toothed vagina). In “Teeth” Dawn (Jess Weixler) that castration myth’s unfortunate embodiment is a devout Christian who lectures on abstinence and leads the Promise a group of teenagers who have pledged chastity until marriage. They wear red rings to certify their purity and go on group dates to shield one another from temptation. Dawn’s boyfriend Tobey (Hale Appleman) has adopted the pledge but reluctantly." once “Teeth” has demonstrated how far it will go its joke becomes repetitive. Before the movie’s over the screen is littered with severed pieces of the male anatomy one of which is snapped up by a dog. Ho-hum. The problem with shockers comic or otherwise is that once the coup de grâce is delivered there are no big surprises left." whose performance earned her a special jury prize at last year’s Sundance Film Festival suggests a younger dewy Heather Graham. As Dawn breaks her pledge under fierce duress her body responds involuntarily and she wreaks traumatic damage to the unwelcome male intruders. But even after she knows how her body can react she retains a quality of wide-eyed naïveté as though that couldn’t really be happening." and one thing leads to another. When he forces himself on her her body responds savagely and he flees in agony leaving a part of himself behind. The distraught heroine scours the Internet for information and learns about the myth she incarnates. In the movie’s funniest scene she undergoes a gynecological examination in which the doctor played by Josh Pais as a bossy leering know-it-all receives an excruciating surprise." Wolfgang Held; edited by Joe Landauer; music by Robert Miller; production designer Paul Avery; produced by Joyce Pierpoline and Mr. Lichtenstein; released by Roadside Attractions. In Manhattan at the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes." John Hensley (Brad) Josh Pais (Dr. Godfrey) Hale Appleman (Tobey) Ashley Springer (Ryan) Vivienne Benesch (Kim) Lenny Von Dohlen (Bill) Nicole Swahn (Melanie) Julia Garro (Gwen) and Adam Wagner (Phil)." ” the 1961 melodrama in which chastity and sexual frustration drive Natalie Wood’s character into a mental hospital." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18cass.html
John Benfield (Father) Phil Davis (Martin Burns) Colin Farrell (Terry) Sally Hawkins (Kate) Ewan McGregor (Ian) and Tom Wilkinson (Howard)." “Match Point” (black as pitch and very fine) and “Scoop” (an amusing goof) “Cassandra’s Dream” takes place in a movie-made London where the picturesque streets can turn into noirish dead ends. A well-matched Ewan McGregor and Colin Farrell play Ian and Terry brothers in blood and deed. Somewhat flash with natty suits and a jaunty walk Ian helps run their father’s struggling restaurant; Terry in turn works in a garage where the grease creeps under his nails and stays there. Ian dreams of making it big in real estate while Terry banks on the dog races and the poker table. They’re good boys nice guys eager to please fast to smile and as dedicated to each other as to the idea of family." Terry by losing large at cards — and both turn to their elusive wealthy uncle for help. Dropped clumsily into the drama Uncle Howard (Tom Wilkinson) is a classic deus ex machina who exists simply to push Terry and Ian toward their fates. He doesn’t make much sense (he swings into London abruptly) but he doesn’t have to; he just has to provide the means for two ordinary men to transform into tragic characters. It’s an old story and it fits Mr. Allen’s pessimism nicely in part because it’s the kind of old story that predates the modern condition and the therapeutic jabber of which he has been so fond." ”  Woody Allen’s latest excursion to the dark side of human nature is good enough that you may wonder why he doesn’t just stop making comedies once and for all. Perhaps that’s heretical but it’s the view of someone who has accompanied Mr. Allen on all his recent follies “The Curse of the Jade Scorpion” included and has too often heard her own laughter die gurgling in her throat from a lack of inspiration. There’s nothing remotely funny about “Cassandra’s Dream ” save perhaps that immodest title." Vilmos Zsigmond; edited by Alisa Lepselter; music by Philip Glass; production designer Maria Djurkovic; produced by Letty Aronson Stephen Tenenbaum and Gareth Wiley; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes." including Mr. Wilkinson who never finds the right pitch for his character or the monstrous fury that his most pivotal scene demands. Mr. Allen sets this scene during a rainstorm which echoes the similarly climactic moment in “Match Point ” when the secret lovers kiss and set destiny on its brutal path. Like all filmmakers Mr. Allen steals from himself like a magpie which wouldn’t be grounds for criticism if he were a more dedicated and careful thief. Like many of his later films though “Cassandra’s Dream” feels too lightly polished and often rushed as if he had directed it with a stopwatch. That’s too bad because while Mr. Allen may feel as if he’s running out of time he has scarcely run out of ideas." which doesn’t mean that you can’t put Ian and Terry on the couch. By all means do. But the pleasures of this modest film are right on the surface in the upward curve of Mr. McGregor’s lips and the reverse lines of Mr. Farrell’s anguish. Like Mr. Allen’s instrumental visual style — lots of two-shots simple moves — Mr. McGregor’s easygoing turn takes time getting used to partly because as is almost always the case with this director the actor seems to have been left to his own devices. But the performance sticks like a knife. It delivers force and feeling as does Mr. Farrell whose gentleness has rarely been used so effectively." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18beau.html
the relative old-timers at Beaufort include the amiable romantic Oshri (Eli Eltonyo) and Koris (Itay Tiran) the unit’s brooding cynical conscience. They are visited at the beginning by Ziv (Ohad Knoller) a bomb-defusing specialist who has been sent to help clear a road that may be booby-trapped." trundling down coffin-shaped corridors in spacesuitlike combat gear and bracing for the next round of attacks from an invisible enemy. Their lives are governed by tedium claustrophobia and anxiety and yet they clearly feel something like affection for the bleak isolated place that has become their home." Itay Tiran (Koris) Eli Eltonyo (Oshri) Ohad Knoller (Ziv) Itay Turgeman (Zitlawy) and Arthur Faradjev (Shpitzer)." by the way a real place. Beaufort Castle a fortress built during the Crusades was captured by Israel in the 1982 invasion of Lebanon and held until the Israeli withdrawal in 2000. Based on a novel by Ron Leshem “Beaufort ” the third feature directed by Joseph Cedar (and the winner of the Silver Bear at the Berlin Film Festival last year) takes place as Israeli forces are preparing to leave." with English subtitles) by Mr. Cedar and Ron Leshem based on the novel “Im Yesh Gan Eden” (“If There Is a Heaven”) by Mr. Leshem; director of photography Ofer Inov; edited by Zohar M. Sela; music by Ishai Adar; production designer Miguel Merkin; produced by David Silber and David Mandil; released by Kino International. Running time: 2 hours 5 minutes. This film is not rated." a volatile young officer who often seems to be out of his depth and prey to his emotions. He commits a few disastrous misjudgments yet the filmmakers and his fellow soldiers treat him for the most part with sympathy. Indeed a tired battered humanism pervades “Beaufort.” Its perspective on Israeli military action is neither guilty nor jingoistic but instead almost philosophical a detachment that is enabled by the decision to keep Hezbollah and the rest of Lebanon far in the background." reflecting perhaps a bit too faithfully the dull stressful routines of life in this bunker. The architecture of its plot also has some of the blockiness of an old-fashioned combat picture. If a character has a big personality-revealing scene — talking about his girlfriend back home or showing what an irrepressible cutup he is — you can bet that a missile is heading his way before too long." which wants the long-planned evacuation to look like a retreat under fire. And the casualties provoke not only fear and anger on the part of the young soldiers but also bewilderment. Why has their military held onto Beaufort for so long? Why did they seize it in the first place?" strictly speaking a war movie but for long stretches it feels more like science fiction. The small band of Israeli soldiers who are its main — virtually its only — characters inhabit a mountain outpost in southern Lebanon that might as well be a space station marooned in a hostile galaxy." even if it does not entirely rise above cliché “Beaufort” has an earnest sober intelligence that makes it hard to shake. It suggests that for those who fight the futility of war is inseparable from its nobility." haunting the action rather than dominating it. Sometimes the men direct their frustration up the chain of command at the military brass that seems to be delaying their return home. At other times they speak bitterly of the peace activists whose demonstrations they believe are forcing them to leave too soon. Similar contradictions inflect relationships among the soldiers which continually shift from warmth to wariness to antagonism." unassuming intimacy. And though they are sometimes hard to distinguish in the shadowy light and their bulky uniforms the soldiers and their personalities come through thanks to a strong cast and the clarity of Mr. Cedar and Mr. Leshem’s script." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18mad.html
if she accepts humiliating work as a janitor in the local Federal Reserve Bank. Surrounded by money in a high-security environment of surveillance cameras checkpoints and employees subject to random searches Bridget while pushing a mop becomes obsessed with getting her hands on some of the dough." it jumps back three years then periodically leaps ahead to show snippets of the women under police interrogation. The confusion is a sign that “Mad Money” doesn’t trust its audience to stay seated until the caper is underway." whose screenwriting debut “Thelma and Louise ” made her Hollywood’s go-to gal for stories of empowered sisterhood lends it a feminist credential. And because two of the film’s  women become their family’s breadwinners “Mad Money” is another fable of sisters doing it for themselves. Mr. Danson’s stay-at-home husband becomes a reluctant collaborator who agrees to run a sham consulting business from the house as a cover story for their affluence." the women go  wild and deliriously toss it into the air. As the movie invites you to share their delight you may feel a tad unclean. Is wealth ill-gotten or not the answer to everything? Yes yes yes! proclaims the movie directed by Callie Khouri from a screenplay adapted by Glenn Gers from the British television film “Hot Money.”" a  single mother raising two children and Jackie Truman (Katie Holmes) a flibbertigibbet who lives in a trailer with her husband Bob (Adam Rothenberg) — are a demographically oddball threesome calculated to appeal equally to the Woody Allen Oprah Winfrey and Jerry Springer crowds." a one-note character who dances  around the bank wearing headphones. While Bridget and Nina bond amiably (Nina is one of Ms. Latifah’s meatier recent screen roles which isn’t saying much) Jackie registers as a ditsy afterthought. Nina is given a love interest in Barry (Roger Cross) a   soft-hearted security guard who spotting the signs of money stuffed under her shirt remarks “Unless you have very hard rectangular breasts we need to talk.”" diverting some wouldn’t really be theft would it? That’s how Bridget rationalizes her scheme in which she enlists two handpicked co-conspirators to change the locks on the carts so they can grab some moola during its transit to the shredders. She airily calls it recycling." based on the screenplay “Hot Money” by Neil McKay and Terry Winsor and the original screenplay by John Mister; director of photography John Bailey; edited by Wendy Greene Bricmont; production designer Brent Thomas; produced by James Acheson Jay Cohen and Frank DeMartini; released by Overture Films. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes. WITH: Diane Keaton (Bridget Cardigan) Queen Latifah (Nina Brewster) Katie Holmes (Jackie Truman) Ted Danson (Don Cardigan) Adam Rothenberg (Bob Truman) Roger Cross (Barry) Stephen Root (Glover) Christopher McDonald (Bryce Arbogast) and Finesse Mitchell (Shaun)." ” another movie in which three smart women defy the system. But in “Mad Money ” Glover (Stephen Root) the stubbornly doltish bank manager who thwarts investigators by insisting his security is unbreachable isn’t half as pungent a villain as  the evil sexist boss in “9 to 5.”" ” financial crisis inspires serious theft. No sooner has  Don (Ted Danson) Bridget’s husband sprung the alarming news that he has been downsized from his cushy corporate job and is $286 000 in debt than she springs into action." as she  amasses a basement’s worth of dirty money." amoral heist comedy “Mad Money ” “Fun With Dick and Jane” meets “9 to 5” on the way to recession. If this uncomfortably timely movie lacks the political bite of the first and the cozy star chemistry of the second it sputters to fitful life in the crooked grin of Diane Keaton whose character Bridget Cardigan an upper-middle-class homemaker in suburban Kansas City Mo. develops an insatiable lust for larceny." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18dres.html
Peter James; edited by Priscilla Nedd-Friendly; music by Randy Edelman; produced by Roger Birnbaum Gary Barber and Jonathan Glickman; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." who recently played the Wrong Right Guy in “Enchanted ” while the Wrong Right Guy is Edward Burns who gets to be the Right Wrong Guy mostly in movies he writes and directs himself." let me just note that the big comic-romantic set piece comes when Jane and the Right Wrong Guy get drunk at a suburban roadhouse and sing “Benny and the Jets” while dancing on the bar. At least it wasn’t “Y.M.C.A.” or “I Got You (I Feel Good) ” but still." ” Jane (Katherine Heigl) a serial bridesmaid with an almost pathological devotion to other people’s nuptials spends a long night shuttling between two weddings. One is in Midtown Manhattan the other in Brooklyn; one has an upper-crusty white-bread look while the other appears to be a Jewish-Hindu intermarriage. But as the director Anne Fletcher methodically cuts back and forth between them she makes the reasonably insightful moderately funny point that modern American weddings however they may strain for individuality and specialness are all pretty much alike." ” which was written by Aline Brosh McKenna (whose script adaptation of “The Devil Wears Prada” was far more witty and interesting) is that the Guys are not really the point. Or rather if getting the Right one is the point of the story (see above) the spark of comedy is carried by the women in the picture." R.I.) takes a bit under two hours to make it to the altar with (or at least be stopped at the airport by) the Right Guy who had seemed at first to be the Wrong Guy. Earlier the Wrong Guy had seemed to be the Right Guy." James Marsden (Kevin) Malin Akerman (Tess) Judy Greer (Casey) and Edward Burns (George)." shyer member of a pair of sisters. The costume designer Catherine Marie Thomas worked at least as hard to find a dress (out of the 27 in the title) that might make Ms. Heigl look less than gorgeous. A futile effort like most of the rest of the movie or the attempt to find anything else to say about it." the blossoming babymama in “Knocked Up ” has an impressive gift for mugging. Her eyebrows shoot up and scrunch  downward with amazing precision and her mouth contorts itself amusingly when she says things like “gewurztraminer ” “hot hate sex” and “I’m Jesus.”" who at least is played by the irrepressible Judy Greer (“13 Going on 30”). Jane’s sister Tess — her rival as it happens for the love of the Wrong Right Guy — is Malin Akerman who was the only remotely funny thing about “The Heartbreak Kid ” in which she played the Wrong Right Girl." charming women with a funny charming movie is something of a puzzle. Or maybe it isn’t since their task seems to have been to produce a movie that wouldn’t make all the other movies exactly like it too envious." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/18/movies/18clov.html
” and yet here we go again with the end of the world or at least some of the city’s most exclusive ZIP codes. This time the annihilation comes courtesy of a reptilian creature with a slithering smashing tail multiple grabby appendages and an apparently insatiable appetite for destruction. At one point in “Cloverfield”  you get a close very personal look at that hungry mouth which agape recalls that of the adult monster designed by H. R. Giger for the first “Alien ” though without any of the older beastie’s freakily sexualized menace or resonance." this new monster is nothing more than a blunt instrument designed to smash and grab without Freudian complexity or political critique despite the tacky allusions to Sept. 11. The screams and the images of smoke billowing through the canyons of Lower Manhattan may make you think of the attack and you may curse the filmmakers for their vulgarity insensitivity or lack of imagination. (The director Matt Reeves lives in Los Angeles as does the writer Drew Goddard and the movie’s star producer J. J. Abrams.) But the film is too dumb to offend anything except your intelligence and the monster does cut a satisfying swath through the cast so your only complaint may be What took it so long?" but mostly it’s a feature-length gimmick. It opens with some official-looking United States government text claiming that the following images were retrieved from what was once known as Central Park. The big (or rather only) idea here is that almost everything we subsequently see is the presumably unedited video material shot by Hud who though initially reluctant to pick up the camera develops a mania for documentation once the monster strikes. So consummate is his dedication to his version of cinéma vérité that he keeps the camera plugged to his eye even while he’s running through hailstorms of debris trying to cross a fast-collapsing bridge and witnessing friends melt down bleed out and even die." “Cloverfield” clocks in at 84 minutes a running time that includes the usual interminable  final credits. The movie moves relatively fast though it’s nowhere near as economical as its colossus whose thunderous shrieks and fiery projectiles bring a downtown loft party to a merciful abrupt end. The loft belongs to a blandly pretty young thing named Rob (Michael Stahl-David) who on the eve of relocating to Japan for work has been thrown a farewell party by some other blandly pretty young things. The names we’re meant to remember are those of Rob’s brother Jason (Mike Vogel) and Jason’s insignificant other Lily (Jessica Lucas); a bored boring single Marlena (Lizzy Caplan); and Rob’s nitwit buddy Hud (T. J. Miller) who has been recruited to videotape the party." hopeful moment I thought the filmmakers might be making a point about how the contemporary compulsion to record the world has dulled us to actual lived experience including the suffering of others — you know something about the simulacrum syndrome in the post-Godzilla age at the intersection of the camera eye with the narcissistic “I.” Certainly this straw-grasping seemed the most charitable way to explain characters whose lack of personality (“This is crazy dude!”) is matched only by their incomprehensible stupidity. Smart as Tater Tots and just as differentiated Rob and his ragtag crew behave like people who have never watched a monster movie or the genre-savvy “Scream” flicks or even an episode of “Lost” (Hello Mr. Abrams!) much less experienced the real horrors of Sept. 11." Michael Bonvillain; edited by Kevin Stitt; production designer Martin Whist; visual effects by Double Negative and Tippett Studio; produced by J. J. Abrams and Bryan Burk; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes." Jessica Lucas (Lily) T. J. Miller (Hud) Michael Stahl-David (Rob) Mike Vogel (Jason) and Odette Yustman (Beth)." so much like a character from a crummy movie Rob hears from an estranged lover Beth (Odette Yustman) who after the attack begs for help on her miraculously working cellphone. Against the odds and a crush of fleeing humanity he tries to rescue her (unbelievably ludicrously the others tag along) which is meant to show what a good guy he is. But heroism without a fully realized hero proves as much a dead end as subjective camerawork that’s executed without a discernible subjectivity.  Like too many big-studio productions “Cloverfield” works as a showcase for impressively realistic-looking special effects a realism that fails to extend to the scurrying humans whose fates are meant to invoke pity and fear but instead inspire yawns and contempt." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/16/movies/16jawa.html
with English subtitles) by Mr. Nugroho and Armantono; director of photography Teoh Gay Hian; edited by Andhy Pulung; music by Rahayu Supanggah and Wiwid Setya; released by the Global Film Initiative. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art. Running time: two hours. This film is not rated." Martinus Miroto (Setyo) Eko Supriyanto (Ludiro) Retno Maruti (Sukesi) and Nyoman Sure (Sure)." leaping villagers animal carcasses and tinkly gamelan music “Opera Jawa” places its lurid love triangle against a backdrop of social unrest and erotic fantasy. The second is indebted to the impressive contortions of Mr. Supriyanto whose résumé includes Madonna’s Drowned World Tour and whose hips deserve their own paycheck. Dancing seductively on a tabletop wearing  a jaunty fedora and red cummerbund he generates a magnetism breaching cultural boundaries." “Opera Jawa” is guaranteed to test the fortitude of all but the most adventurous viewer." ” from the Hindu epic “The Ramayana ” this bizarre musical extravaganza is the seventh feature by the Indonesian filmmaker Garin Nugroho and probably the first to open with a song about pig livers. Things only get stranger as we meet the beautiful Siti (Artika Sari Devi) and her husband Setyo (Martinus Miroto) a humble potter with a failing business and romantic insecurities. Suffering from neither is Siti’s would-be lover a besotted butcher named Ludiro (the Javanese dancer and choreographer Eko Supriyanto) whose excessive attachment to his mother would nevertheless give any girl pause." ” he warbles by way of a come-on. Oh well I never said he was perfect." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/12/movies/12king.html
where the film was shot. Maybe it’s time that Mr. Boll who is dedicated if nothing else found a new hook one that didn’t involve translating an interactive pastime not intended to be viewed in the first place." based on a story by Jason Rappaport Dan Stroncak and Mr. Taylor inspired by the video game Dungeon Siege developed by Chris Taylor; director of photography Mathias Neumann; edited by Paul Klassen and David M. Richardson; music by Jessica de Rooij and Henning Lohner; production designer James Steuart; produced by Shawn Williamson and Dan Clarke; released by Freestyle Releasing. Running time: 2 hours 7 minutes." the large mostly all-star — or has-been star — cast of “In the Name of the King: A Dungeon Siege Tale” look rather dazedly to be playing dress-up." the gruffly soft-spoken hero who can whip the bad guys)  plays a simple farmer whose wife (Claire Forlani) is kidnapped and young son murdered by warrior-beasts called Krug. To get her back he must eventually face off with Gallian (Ray Liotta) an over-the-top evil wizard and overlord of the Krug." John Rhys-Davies (Merick) Ray Liotta (Gallian) Matthew Lillard (Duke Fallow) Leelee Sobieski (Muriella) Burt Reynolds (King Konreid) Will Sanderson (Bastian) Ron Perlman (Norick) and Claire Forlani (Solana)." of the sword-and-sorcery variety is the latest from Uwe Boll the German  filmmaker also responsible for the anemic “BloodRayne ” “House of the Dead” and “Alone in the Dark.” An awkward “Lord of the Rings” knockoff it features both elaborate battles and bumbling humor though it’s never quite clear when you should be laughing." It has violent yet bloodless battle scenes involving death by arrow fire sword and boomerang." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/11/movies/11wind.html
the soundtrack of “Times and Winds” is filled with the stirrings of nature  —  the wind rushing through trees animal sounds and bird song from near and far. Augmenting this pastoral symphony are excerpts from several pieces  by Arvo Pärt (including the “Te Deum”) that add texture and gravity to the film. The music  —  lush but emotionally neutral and at times static  —  conjures eternal things." with English subtitles) directed and edited by Reha Erdem; director of photography Florent Herry; art director Omer Atay; produced by Mr. Atay; released by Kino International. At the Anthology Film Archives 32-34 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes. This film is not rated." ailing father (Bulent Emin Yarar) the village imam prefers Omer’s younger brother Omer devoutly wishes his father dead." a beautiful young woman whom the villagers reward with regular deliveries of milk and bread. The boy is crushed when he comes upon his father peeping at her through a window of her house. The scene of the son spying on the father spying on the woman rubs in the fact that this is no Garden of Eden." ” Reha Erdem’s transporting vision of life in a mountain village in northwest Turkey as seen through the eyes of three children on the verge of adolescence. Make no mistake: The movie for all its majestic shots of the rocky landscape and of the moon skittering behind clouds is not a lump-in-your-throat portrait of the noble poor living in harmony with the elements." light heat  and the water cycle reflect the film’s focus on the intersection of daily life with the laws of nature. Its absence of high drama allows such primary forces to become its main subject. The film is organized around the five daily calls to Islamic prayer chronologically reversed so that night is followed by evening then afternoon noon and dawn. As the sun rises at the end of the movie this rearrangement of time simultaneously evokes the village’s unchanging way of life and the blind expectations of preadolescent children facing adulthood." Ali Bey Kayali (Yakup) Elit Iscan (Yildiz) Bulent Emin Yarar (Imam) Taner Birsel (Zekeriya) Yigit Ozsener (Yusuf) and Selma Ergec (Teacher)." human nature is what it is. The two boys the best friends Omer (Ozkan Ozen) and Yakup (Ali Bey Kayali) and one girl Yildiz (Elit Iscan) whose day-to-day lives the movie observes with an affectionate detachment giggle and point at the spectacle of animals mating." though you couldn’t describe “Times and Winds” as uplifting and its attitude toward childhood  is not sentimental in the  manner of similarly minimalist Iranian movies. Its vision of people in thrall to religious ritual and living at the mercy of nature may be poetic but it is no idyll. The serpent has done its  dirty work." he steals into their room and opens a window over their bed hoping the night air will aggravate his father’s severe respiratory problems. He surreptitiously pulls apart and empties the capsules prescribed for his father’s condition. He even traps a poisonous scorpion he intends to unleash on his father but it  dies." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/11/movies/11pira.html
Mike Nawrocki (Elliot/Pirate Jean Claude Pea/Theater Foe/Pirate Spy Sidekick/Pirate With Dummy/Rock Monster Father) and Cam Clarke (Robert the Terrible/The King)." Phil Vischer doesn’t have the ear or timing to make such asides work for the adults or the kiddies; this is no savvy “Toy Story.” It’s a boilerplate plot like one you might find in any morning cartoon. A gourd a cucumber and an old gent with a purple nose are transported back in time to rescue a prince and princess from pirates. They do and like the Scarecrow et al. find their brains courage and heart along the way. An Oz-like man even gives them awards at the end." he is not. Maybe the film is trying to pay Mr. Depp and his “Pirates of the Caribbean” movies homage by dropping in a reference to his earlier “Edward Scissorhands ” even though that film came out at least 10 years before anyone in the target audience was born. Less easy to explain is its reference to “Scarface ” one of the least faith-and-values-based movies ever made." Charles Vollmer; produced by Paula Marcus Mr. Vischer Mr. Nawrocki and David Pitts; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes. This film is rated G." but the “faith” component of this rather ordinary film for children doesn’t make itself readily apparent." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/11/movies/11firs.html
in the “Barbershop” and “Are We There Yet?” franchises have emphasized his cuddly family-man side. In “First Sunday ” which is not  a new installment in the earlier “Friday” series he departs a bit from the upright-citizen persona playing a man driven to crime by desperate circumstances." ” the first   theatrically released feature film written and directed by David E. Talbert is a comedy. Like Tyler Perry Mr. Talbert has had a successful —  and to the white media nearly invisible —  career as a playwright and theatrical entrepreneur and his movie debut fuses social observation and raucous clean humor with a message of redemption." he is nonetheless generous with both the characters and the audience. “First Sunday” sometimes feels more like a script read-through than like an actual movie but its warmth is likely to carry you through the stretches of cliché and tedium." directed and produced by David E. Talbert; director of photography Alan Caso; edited by Jeffrey Wolf; production designer Dina Lipton; produced by Mr. Talbert David McIlvain Tim Story and Matt Alvarez; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." talky middle third in which an easy in-and-out safecracking scheme turns into a hostage drama. Durell and LeeJohn’s captives include the wise pastor (Chi McBride); his pretty headstrong daughter (Malinda Williams); a shifty deacon (Michael Beach) and the flamboyantly queeny choir director (Katt Williams) among other easily recognizable church-movie stock figures." Katt Williams (Rickey) Tracy Morgan (LeeJohn Jackson) Loretta Devine (Sister Doris McPherson) Michael Beach (Deacon Randy) Keith David (Judge B. Bennett Galloway) Regina Hall (Omunique) Malinda Williams (Tianna Mitchell) and Chi McBride (Pastor Mitchell)." not exactly a mirthful performer requires an antic sidekick and he has a pretty good one here in Tracy Morgan. Mr. Morgan plays LeeJohn the feckless stoner half of a hapless pair of robbers. Durell Ice Cube’s character is the more  practical half of the team. Because he needs $17 000 to prevent his ex-girlfriend from moving with their son from Baltimore to Atlanta Durell decides to rob a church." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/10/movies/10coll.html
Fonz Deza (Eli) Soliman Cruz (Chief of Police) Nanding Josef (Parish Priest) Johnny Manahan (Jueteng Cashier) Jhong Del Rosario (Eric) and Nico Antonio (Baste)." Ralston Jover’s screenplay sets Amy on a well-worn deterministic course. (One influence here may be Bresson’s “Mouchette ” though without any of that film’s terrible beauty.) Over the course of a few days and nights this big nervous woman with a barrel chest and a cough like Camille’s bustles and hustles through a maze of streets trying to cajole other slum dwellers into throwing away their hard-earned pesos. She’s an affable presence — haunted by her dead son who on occasion pops up to soothe her brow — so much so that you may resent the filmmakers for not giving her even a faint ray of hope for rubbing our faces (and her shoe) so insistently in the muck." “The Bet Collector” will be familiar to anyone who spends time trolling the film-festival circuit. Shot hand-held in smudgy digital video the movie borrows the wavering no-frills fly-on-the-wall visual style (and make no mistake it is a style) that partly because of those influential Dogma-ticians Lars von Trier and Thomas Vinterberg has become a tiresome cliché in fiction as well as in nonfiction film. In truth few documentaries actually look like this at least the good ones because talented filmmakers whether working in nonfiction or not never mistake the absence of beauty and thoughtful framing for the truth. (For proof take another look at D. A. Pennebaker’s impeccably shot 1967 Dylan documentary “Don’t Look Back.”)" including Amy’s quirkily charming habit of translating certain word combinations (“a frog and a scared boy ” “a child and testicles”) into numbers. (It’s about the only time that she lights up.) What is particularly frustrating about the movie is that this character actually has the makings of a memorable   subject someone who — like Mouchette and the Dardenne brothers’ similarly desperate heroine Rosetta in the film of the same title — could successfully guide you into her world. The trouble is that Mr. Jeturian and Mr. Jover are far too busy guiding us into their story their ghetto their world with its wretched poverty and despair its police corruption and sudden horrifying violence to allow Amy either to flower fully or to wither on her own personal individual terms." the rough-hewn Filipino movie “The Bet Collector” chases  its protagonist from step to step misery to misery all but nipping at her heels. Though you never see her sell anything Amy (Gina Pareño) operates a tiny store out of the front of her ramshackle Manila house with her husband and tries to make ends meet by illegally running numbers. It’s a living (if barely) though there are moments in this aggressive predictably sympathetic excursion into miserablism when it seems a lot more like dying." with English subtitles) by Ralston Jover; director of photography Roberto Yniguez; edited by Jay Halili; music by Jerrold Tarog; produced by Josabeth Alonso and Rogelio Rayala; released by the Global Film Initiative. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters Museum of Modern Art 11 West 53rd Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/09/movies/09libe.html
Kareem Saviñon (Tico) Raquel Jordan (Denice) Rosa Ramos (Awilda) Anny Mariano (Sister) Johnny Rivera (Nelson) and Rayniel Rufino (Mike)." Eliot Rockett; edited by Dave Rock; music by Jeff Grace; production designer Jesse Cain; produced by Larry Fessenden Mike S. Ryan and Roger Kass; released by Glass Eye Pix. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated." “Liberty Kid” quietly accumulates emotional power. Not until the graceful perfectly judged conclusion do we realize how much we care." they drift into low-level drug dealing and petty insurance scams. But the Dominican-born Derrick has higher aspirations for a college future and regular support payments for his two young children and when Army recruiters come calling — assuring him that a war with Iraq is “not gonna happen” — he makes a decision he will come to regret." wise and deceptively low-key “Liberty Kid” reaches beyond its vulnerable protagonists to enfold an entire class of circumstantial victims. Gently nudging her story in unexpected directions Ms. Chaiken never allows her small budget to show: from Eliot Rockett’s beautifully lighted  photography to the ease with which the actors inhabit their roles everything about this film feels effortless. Even a support-group scene featuring real Iraq war veterans which could have appeared jarringly staged rings with understated authenticity." ” Ilya Chaiken’s poignant drama about marginal lives strained to breaking by the aftermath of Sept. 11." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/09/movies/09beac.html
with English subtitles) and directed by Hong Sang-soo; director of photography Kim Hyung-koo; edited by Hahm Sung-won; music by Jeong Yong-jin; produced by Oh Jung-wan; released by New Yorker Films. At  Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 2 hours 7 minutes. This film is not rated." Ko Hyun-joung (Kim Moon-sook) Kim Tae-woo (Won Chang-wook) and Song Sun-mi (Choi Sun-hee)." who’s also visiting the shore about her likes and dislikes he’s disappointed that they don’t conform to Moon-sook’s  —  which suggests that one of these directors (Kim or Mr. Hong) has recently watched Hitchcock’s “Vertigo.” But while the evocation of sexual obsession and doubling  hints at madness here it also points to exploitation of a more elemental less elevated kind. Kim may be possessed by Moon-sook’s memory but he’s also seized by a direct need which is to finish the screenplay that initially brought him to the beach and to its two inspirational women. Even as Mr. Hong often frames his characters at a remove punctuating their arrangements with elegant zooms and pans he brings you painfully close to the cruelty of creation." for balancing humor with heartache levity with pain. Wry and tender and delicately melancholic “Woman on the Beach” shows a newly confident filmmaker again working near the top of his form after the disappointing “Tale of Cinema” (2005) even if the new film unfolds straightforwardly with none of the narrative ellipses and puzzle-box complications the flashbacks and parallel story lines of his earlier work. So  while “Woman on the Beach” looks almost simple compared with films like “The Power of Kangwon Province” (1998) in which the stories of two estranged lovers unfold almost entirely in separate sections there is more here — as is always the case with Hong Sang-soo  —  than meets the eye." incrementally gently and with startling emotional force. Moon-sook a lovely earnest young composer whose bashfulness seems as much a weapon as a defense will flirt and then fall for Kim who will aggressively advance and cowardly retreat in turn. Chang-wook will pout on the sidelines playing the fool the patsy the conscience and the audience. As usual in Mr. Hong’s films everyone will consume too much alcohol insults will be exchanged and confessions will be made. A man and a woman will have fumbling embarrassed and terribly sad sex the memory of which will haunt them and the story and probably you. Only the rooms will be shabby never the sentiment." more precisely the pleasures you get as a viewer from working through the involved structures and filling in gaps and silences. Although “Woman on the Beach” unwinds linearly it features many of the same themes preoccupations character types and spatial arrangements found in the earlier films. (Mr. Hong’s penchant for cinematic and literary allusions is evident in this film’s title which presumably refers to Jean Renoir’s 1947 American noir “The Woman on the Beach.”) After a night of boozing and groping Moon-sook and Chang-wook leave Kim whereupon he starts writing the end to this wistful at times quietly comic tale by taking up with a second woman Sun-hee (Song Sun-mi) with whom he tries to reconstruct the encounter he had with the woman who has just exited his bed." ” a bittersweet accounting of the geography of desire from the South Korean director Hong Sang-soo two men and a woman stand staring into the sea. This seemingly casual triangle is a classic formal and sexual configuration for Mr. Hong whose elegant restrained films chart the mysteries of the heart and the follies of the head with intelligence and shock waves of feeling. Yet true to form Mr. Hong draws this triangle with hard sharp lines which you grasp when one man tells the other that he admires him because “it’s hard for a married man to openly bring along his girlfriend ” as he has." a film director who has cajoled an associate Chang-wook (Kim Tae-woo) to accompany him to the shore while he works on a screenplay. Chang-wook has reluctantly agreed but has also invited his girlfriend Moon-sook (Ko Hyun-joung). Now with the three posed at the edge of the wintry beach Mr. Hong begins to reconfigure his triangle ever so slightly. Moon-sook coughs. The three laugh. Kim says that Chang-wook must really trust him an observation that Moon-sook answers by announcing that Chang-wook is not really her boyfriend. Chang-wook looks at her in surprise she calls him childish and Kim announces “This is fun”  —  and it is even if it’s also a bit appalling." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/09/movies/09born.html
which  increasingly turned it into a surgical procedure involving multiple often unnecessary interventions. In 1900 95 percent of births in the United States took place at home. By 1938 the number had shrunk to half. Today the number is less than 1 percent." the film implies is reflected in the United States infant-mortality rate the second-highest in industrialized countries. What accounts for that fact?  “The Business of Being Born” suggests that a cultural aversion to natural home childbirth is a contributing factor." conspiracy theorists might detect a plot by the medical establishment to take  control of a process for both economic and psychological reasons. But the medical establishment would argue that a hospital is the safest place to give birth because if something goes wrong speed is essential. “The Business of Being Born” is not overtly political. Its feminism is palpable but unspoken." anchored in a scene in which its executive producer Ricki Lake the actress and former talk-show host gives birth to her second child in a bathtub. That graphic scene and several other unblinking sequences of home birth attended by a midwife are intended to erase any stigma from the situation.  Practiced widely in Europe and Japan home birth has largely disappeared in the United States the documentary states because of an  image as a primitive unsanitary ritual." the film’s director and one of its producers. (Her husband Paulo Netto is one of its producers as well as its cinematographer.) The movie’s recognition that natural childbirth in the home isn’t the answer for everyone keeps “The Business of Being Born” from turning into a one-note polemic." ’50s and ’60s was supposed to stop pain but the documentary says eliminated the memory of pain often leaving the  mother suffering post-traumatic stress. The taking of X-rays of the pelvis was common until the discovery that some babies developed cancer as a result.  The use of the infamous drug thalidomide for morning sickness was found to cause birth defects. In the 1990s the drug Cytotec to stimulate contractions was found to cause ruptured uteruses." the use of a Caesarean section once the last resort in the event of an emergency has become commonplace because it is so efficient. But as one expert after another points out a C-section is major surgery. Although a woman’s first C-section poses few risks the dangers of serious complications increase with each repetition. It is also very expensive." but the film contends that many have never seen a fully natural birth and are therefore unprepared to  supervise one. Because hospitals are businesses that thrive on a high turnover drugs to induce and speed labor (and that often make it more intense and painful) serve the system by filling and emptying beds at a faster rate." in which the mother lying on her back is encouraged to “push.” Because it makes the pelvis smaller that position increases the likelihood of having to deliver a baby with forceps or a vacuum extractor. Squatting is much less stressful for the mother but more so for the doctor who must catch the  baby. The natural births in the film including Ms. Lake’s are carried out in a squatting position in warm water with a midwife and loved ones at hand." Paulo Netto; edited by Madeleine Gavin; produced by Ms. Epstein Amy Slotnick and Mr. Netto; released by Red Envelope Entertainment and International Film Circuit. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/07/movies/07bloo.html
and the unpleasant games begin:  mind games mostly though the film has its bloody moments. For added interest the thugs produce an unfortunate young man in a sack whom they have apparently been harassing regularly over the years." by the Korean director Won Shin-yun is a sort of Asian “Deliverance.” It escalates its ominousness perfectly with director and actors knowing that the richest zone for shock value lies just short of over-the-top not beyond it. And they handle the movie’s moments of humor just as deftly: They’re always deadpan and brief and funnier because of it." the film throws in one nice twist then concludes with another. It even serves up a little food for thought: Which is worse uncivilized evil carrying a baseball bat or civilized evil driving a fancy car?" but what makes “A Bloody Aria” a darkly delightful surprise is its restraint." married music professor who as the movie begins is taking a young woman and former student (Cha Ye-ryun) on a not-so-innocent drive. He pulls off the road and under a bridge where she fights off his attempt at rape. As she tries to flee the professor finds that his car a new Mercedes is stuck in sand and that some young thugs have surrounded it." Cha Ye-ryun (In-jeong) Han Seok-gyu (Moon Jae) Lee Mun-shik (Bong-yeon) and Oh Dal-su (O-guen)." with English subtitles) and directed by Won Shin-yun; director of photography Kim Dong-eun;  released by ImaginAsian Pictures and Prime Entertainment. At the ImaginAsian Theater 239 East 59th Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/05/movies/05miss.html
Andrew Klavan’s screenplay sacrifices coherence for atmosphere at every turn. As Beth tries to evade her own telegraphed demise — accompanied by a fantastically irrelevant police detective (Ed Burns) — the movie crawls with furry millipedes and creepy china dolls. When even the cunning Ray Wise (currently hamming it up on television as the cheeky Devil of “Reaper”) appears lost in the role of a reality-television producer disconnection is the only possible response." unexpectedly following her owner to a watery grave. The moment is wickedly humorous  and suggests a movie that’s unwilling to take itself too seriously. If only." drowned impaled and ring-toned to death." Eric Valette’s reworking of Takashi Miike’s  “Chakushin Ari” is a poker-faced puzzle whose biggest shock is the absence of Sarah Michelle Gellar. Subbing for that remake regular is Shannyn Sossamon as Beth a dour psychology student whose friends suffer grisly deaths after receiving heads-ups  on their cellphones. These wireless warnings each heralded by an eerie ring tone and disquieting visions persist even after battery removal — as if the medium’s viral ubiquity weren’t already sinister enough." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/02/movies/02lenn.html
Holden Caulfield is torture. That J. D. Salinger novel set off the sort of brainstorm in Mr. Chapman that some evangelical Christians have described as their reaction to encountering a Bible on the eve of conversion." ” Andrew Piddington’s devastating re-enactment of events leading up to including and immediately after the murder is taken from interviews depositions and court transcripts. Because much of the dialogue is voice-over the film takes place largely inside Mr. Chapman’s feverish mind. Lennon appears in the movie but only briefly and in shadow: a phantom to be slain." including the sidewalk outside the Dakota the movie is extremely uncomfortable to watch. Using a minimum of photographic tricks it evokes episodes of mental disorientation in which images jiggle and blur into one another. Its fragments from the movies “Raging Bull ” “Taxi Driver” and “Ordinary People” suggest the volatile interaction of popular culture and mental instability. And its sampling of vintage clips of the Beatles and of Lennon is heartbreaking." where Mr. Chapman lived with his Japanese-American wife Gloria (Mie Omori) and worked as a security guard (a job he quit) in the months before his first visit to New York City in October 1980. In Honolulu he complains of severe headaches and of difficulty eating and sleeping. We meet his mother (Krisha Fairchild) a blowsy blonde with a Southern accent whom he describes as a character out of “The Glass Menagerie.”" Roger Eaton; edited by Tony Palmer; music by Makana; production designer Tora Peterson; produced by Rakha Singh; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes. This film is not rated." when a psychiatrist at Bellevue Hospital Center asks why he did it Mr. Chapman replies: “Because I thought he was a phony. I actually loved his music.”" who is now serving a 20-year-to-life sentence in Attica state prison it requires you to spend nearly two hours in his disturbing company. That’s asking a lot. Grandiose narcissistic subject to delusions and extreme mood swings he comes across as the kind of maniacally self-centered creep who if encountered in a bar would prompt most people to disengage after five minutes of small talk." Mark David Chapman (Jonas Ball) who shot Lennon on Dec. 8 1980 in front of his home at the Dakota the Manhattan apartment complex at 72nd Street and Central Park West." he says: “There was no emotion no anger. There was dead silence in my brain.”" ” the book became “an electric current in my hand burning my body ” he recalls. From then on Mr. Chapman began confusing himself with Caulfield often signing the character’s name instead of his own and in the courtroom quoting passages from the book as if they were Scripture." a screw came loose in his mind. Mr. Ball who is somewhat better-looking than photographs of Mr. Chapman but of the same physical type captures the tiniest nuances of obsequiousness and cunning that such people exhibit. In Mr. Chapman’s case the precarious balance between adoration and envy tilted lethally toward the negative." Krisha Fairchild (Mr. Chapman’s mother) Mie Omori (Gloria Chapman) and Robert Kirk (Detective John Sullivan)." when he discovers that Lennon is away he sees the movie “Ordinary People ” which temporarily dissuades him from his mission. “My rage was defeated ” he declares proudly. “The volcano was capped.” But not for long." Mr. Chapman cites the lyrics of “Imagine” (“Imagine no possessions”) then enumerates that star’s properties." it is also a total bummer." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/28/movies/28orph.html
but potentially upsetting all the same." since I don’t want to spoil any surprises. The twists in Sergio G. Sánchez’s script though fairly conventional in themselves are deftly executed by Mr. Bayona." endangered child (Roger Príncep); and a spooky house in the middle of nowhere. The child Simón has been adopted by Laura and her husband Carlos (Fernando Cayo) who have the perfectly sensible idea of moving to the orphanage where Laura grew up and turning it into a home for sick children. What could possibly go wrong?" if these emotions are credible the lapses of logic and plausibility that haunt nearly every exercise in supernatural cinema will melt away. Metaphysical leaps can be forgiven if the underlying melodramatic architecture is sound; this is why no one pushes too hard against the premises of “The Sixth Sense” or “The Others ” two movies whose blending of the creepy with the weepy “The Orphanage” recalls." with English subtitles) by Sergio G. Sánchez; director of photography Oscar Faura; edited by Elena Ruiz; music by Fernando Velázquez; art director Josep Rosell; produced by Mar Targarona Joaquín Padró and Álvaro Augustín; released by Picturehouse. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." Fernando Cayo (Carlos) Roger Príncep (Simón) Mabel Rivera (Pilar) Montserrat Carulla (Benigna) Andrés Gertrúdix (Enrique) Edgar Vivar (Balaban) and Geraldine Chaplin (Aurora)." in particular one named Tomás and a sinister old lady shows up claiming to be a social worker. And before you know it Geraldine Chaplin the honorary fairy godmother of Spanish cinema stops by to lead a séance." ” a diverting overwrought ghost story from Spain relies on basic and durable horror movie techniques. Give a competent director a gliding camera creepy music and a dim hallway lined with doors and a decent scare is likely to follow. No matter how many times you have seen similar tricks the sudden apparition of a child at the end of that hall — especially a child in a weird anachronistic costume — is likely to make you jump a little in your seat. So when a distraught Laura (Belén Rueda) stumbles down the corridor and comes face to face with a boy whose shorts and knee socks are accessorized by a burlap sack covering his face you are likely to be nearly as terrified as she is." and the sincerity of Ms. Rueda’s performance “The Orphanage” never quite achieves the intensity it is clearly aiming for. You experience an occasional shudder but not the deep resonant unease that makes for a truly memorable nightmare." there is no doubting his skill. But like his patron Guillermo del Toro (who is both producer and “presenter” of this movie) Mr. Bayona is interested in using the horror genre to explore emotions beyond mere fright. Though there are plenty of sudden jolts and eerie atmospherics “The Orphanage” is ultimately concerned with grief remorse and maternal longing." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/28/movies/28hone.html
who wrote directed and edited “Honeydripper ” is primarily interested in fusing archetypes from the Jim Crow South both black and white with mythic dimensions. An affable blind bluesman Possum (Keb’ Mo’) whose enigmatic smile hints at his possession of secret knowledge turns up now and again. Everywhere and nowhere at once his elusive presence helps push the movie toward the realm of fable." ” John Sayles’s shambling fusion of pop mythology and social mosaic imagines the world-changing moment around 1950 in the rural South when a blues guitarist first plugged in his ax and rocked the joint." an unknown is passed off as Guitar Sam a regional blues legend who is a last-minute no-show at the Honeydripper. The music made for the movie by Mr. Clark a blues hotshot from Austin Tex. with several albums to his credit is proto-Chuck Berry though not as distinctive." Sonny is arbitrarily arrested for vagrancy by the white sheriff Pugh (Stacy Keach) and dispatched to pick cotton on the plantation of Pugh’s crony the local judge. On payday a plantation owner refuses to give a laborer his full wages simply for the pleasure of humiliating him. But the omnipresent threat of physical violence explodes only once in a black-on-black knife fight inside the Honeydripper." terminally weary blues singer Bertha Mae (Mabel John) her devoted long-time consort Slick (Vondie Curtis Hall) Tyrone’s partner Delilah (Lisa Gay Hamilton) whose frustrations are driving her to explore Pentecostalism and Tyrone’s best friend Maceo (Charles S. Dutton). Finally there is Tyrone’s angelic stepdaughter China Doll (Yaya DaCosta) who becomes the inspiration for Sonny’s ultimate rock ’n’ roll blast." the film’s fine actors only fitfully succeed in camouflaging the machinery behind their characters. Two of the most familiar are a fluttery white Southern matron Amanda (Mary Steenburgen) who unwittingly condescends to her black maid and an overweight black mama Nadine (Davenia McFadden) with a dirty mind. Amanda comes straight from Tennessee Williams and Nadine from Bessie Smith." colorfully idiomatic flow that has always been a hallmark of Southern speech." the Honeydripper’s owner Tyrone  Purvis (Danny Glover) a former boogie-woogie pianist steals the liquor destined for a rival club whose jukebox is driving him out of business." well-intentioned and very very slow. Sadly it illustrates the difference between an archetype and a stereotype. When the first falls flat it turns into the other and becomes a cliché." Sonny Blake (Gary Clark Jr.) is an itinerant freight-train-hopping young guitar wiz with no particular place to go who stops off at the sleepy little town of Harmony Ala. His instrument cut from a solid woodblock and lacking a sound hole emits rock ’n’ roll lightning at the Honeydripper a dilapidated roadhouse on the verge of going out of business. Saturday night in America will never be the same." directed and edited by John Sayles; director of photography Dick Pope; music by Mason Daring; production designer Toby Corbett; produced by Maggie Renzi; released by Emerging Pictures. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 2 hours 2 minutes." Charles S. Dutton (Maceo) Lisa Gay Hamilton (Delilah) Mary Steenburgen (Amanda Winship) Stacy Keach (Sheriff Pugh) Vondie Curtis Hall (Slick) Sean Patrick Thomas (Dex) Keb’ Mo’ (Possum) Kel Mitchell (Junebug) Gary Clark Jr. (Sonny Blake) Mabel John (Bertha Mae) Yaya DaCosta (China Doll) and Davenia McFadden (Nadine)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/26/movies/26smil.html
flirty goofball whose perpetual buzz is cranked up several notches when she scarfs a plateful of cannabis-spiked muffins baked by her roommate. Intending to bake a replacement batch she orders a large amount of product from a dealer (a dreadlocked droll Adam Brody) whom she can’t afford to pay; accidentally destroys her cellphone while cooking the muffins; then arrives late to an audition for a strait-laced casting agent who reports her drug use to the police; and so on." but they’re really sentient vegetables rooted in comfort and nourished by manufactured images of bliss. Jane’s apathy-as-rebellion recalls a quotation from Stella Adler: “A junkie is someone who uses their body to tell society that something is wrong.”" though “Smiley Face” suggests that the “straight” characters Jane encounters — the casting director (Jane Lynch); a bullying beat cop (Michael Shamus Wiles); a college professor’s wife (Marion Ross) from whom Jane steals an original copy of Marx and Engels’s “Communist Manifesto”; a couple of amiably clueless meat delivery men (Danny Trejo and John Cho); the  humorless  Brevin (John Krasinski of NBC’s “Office”) who likes getting his teeth cleaned because it makes him feel “prosperous” — are in thrall to an even more powerful drug: the myth of the American dream." “Smiley Face” is as prankishly political as Mr. Araki’s “Doom Generation ” evincing a deep unease with the media-saturated capitalist nation that Jane crawls inside her bong to escape." the movie at first seems a psychedelic lark in the spirit of “The Big Lebowski ” “Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle” and other works distinguished by picaresque narratives and cumulus clouds of marijuana smoke." ” about a pot-addled would-be actress stumbling through a long weird day in Los Angeles is a contradiction in terms: a “stoner” comedy with a purpose." who has somehow ended up at the meat-packing plant that employs the delivery men deflects a supervisor’s ire by claiming to be a union organizer then fantasizes launching into a Marxist soliloquy about industrial oppression of labor. Mr. Araki intercuts Jane’s rant with unsettling close-ups of meat being sliced ground and liquefied." a trailblazer of early ’90s queer cinema can stage a non sequitur with the best of them. He gets plenty of opportunities thanks to his lead actress the “Scary Movie” star Anna Faris whose freakishly committed performance as Jane F. suggests Amy Adams’s princess from “Enchanted” dropped into a Cheech and Chong movie." John Krasinski (Brevin) Adam Brody (Steve the Dealer) Marion Ross (Shirley) Jane Lynch (Casting Director) John Cho (Mikey) Danny Trejo (Albert) and Michael Shamus Wiles (Officer Jones)." Shawn Kim; music by David Kitay; production designer John Larena; produced by Steve Golin Alix Madigan-Yorkin Mr. Araki Kevin Turen and Henry Winterstern; released by First Look Studios. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes." profanity and nonstop drug references." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/26/movies/26chuc.html
directed and edited by Marion Cajori; directors of photography Mead Hunt Ken Kobland and David Leitner; song “Portrait of Chuck” by Philip Glass performed by Bruce Levingston; released by Art Kaleidoscope Foundation. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 56 minutes. This film is not rated." however is the attention that Ms. Cajori who died in August of 2006 devotes to Mr. Close’s process which entails blowing up photographs by way of a grid system and rerendering each section as a huge abstracted square. The technique somehow combines uncanny intimacy and intellectual distance much like Ms. Cajori’s splendid movie which captures Mr. Close at work via a combination of probing close-ups of paint-daubed canvas and wide shots that situate him within his work space." ” about  the painter photographer and printmaker by the documentary filmmaker Marion Cajori is an expansion of Ms. Cajori’s acclaimed 1998 short “Chuck Close: A Portrait in Progress.” But where it truly excels is in its depiction of the physical process of making art." including his upbringing in strait-laced 1950s Monroe Wash.; the pivotal role he played in the 1960s and ’70s downtown art scene; the spinal-column blood clot that landed him in a wheelchair in 1988 and made it difficult to paint without mechanical aids and help from assistants; and his struggle to create innovative significant representational paintings in an era when photography seems to have rendered such art irrelevant." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/26/movies/26bloo.html
there will be blood." by which point Plainview has become a successful oilman with his own fast-growing company. Flanked by the watchful H. W. he storms through California sniffing out prospects and trying to persuade frenzied men and women to lease their land for drilling. (H. W. gives Plainview his human mask: “I’m a family man ” he proclaims to prospective leasers.) One day a gangling unsmiling young man Paul Sunday (Paul Dano) arrives with news that oil is seeping out of the ground at his family’s ranch. The stranger sells this information to Plainview who promptly sets off with H. W. to a stretch of California desert where oil puddles the ground among the cactus scrub and human misery." whom Plainview soothes with promises. Poor isolated thirsting for water (they don’t have enough even to grow wheat) the dazed inhabitants gaze at the oilman like hungry baby birds. (Their barren town is oddly named Little Boston.) He promises schools roads and water delivering his sermon with a carefully enunciated sepulchral voice that Mr. Day-Lewis seems to have largely borrowed from the director John Huston. Plainview is preaching a new gospel though one soon challenged by another salesman Paul Sunday’s Holy Roller brother Eli (also Mr. Dano). A charismatic preacher looking to build a new church Eli slithers into the story one more snake in the desert." based on the novel “Oil!” by Upton Sinclair; director of photography Robert Elswit; edited by Dylan Tichenor; music by Jonny Greenwood; production designer Jack Fisk; produced by Mr. Anderson JoAnne Sellar and Daniel Lupi; released by Paramount Vantage and Miramax Films. Running time: 2 hours 38 minutes." linearly building momentum and unbearable tension. Mr. Day-Lewis’s outsize performance with its footnote references to Huston and strange contorted Kabuki-like grimaces occasionally breaks the skin of the film’s surface like a dangerous undertow. The actor seems to have invaded Plainview’s every atom filling an otherwise empty vessel with so much rage and purpose you wait for him to blow. It’s a thrilling performance among the greatest I’ve seen purposefully alienating and brilliantly located at the juncture between cinematic realism and theatrical spectacle." mainly intersecting sets of fathers and sons and pairs of brothers. (Like most of the finest American directors working now Mr. Anderson makes little on-screen time for women.) But it is Plainview’s intense needful bond with H. W. that raises the stakes and gives enormous emotional force to this expansively imagined period story with its pictorial and historical sweep its raging fires geysers of oil and inevitable blood. (Rarely has a film’s title seemed so ominous.) By the time H. W. is about 10 he has become a kind of partner to his father at once a child and a sober little man with a jacket and neatly combed hair who dutifully stands by Plainview’s side as quiet as his conscience." Paul Dano (Paul Sunday/Eli Sunday) Kevin J. O’Connor (Henry) Ciaran Hinds (Fletcher) and Dillon Freasier (H. W.)." “There Will Be Blood” can certainly be viewed through the smeary window that looks onto the larger world. It’s timeless and topical general and specific abstract and as plain as the name of its fiery oilman. It’s an origin story of sorts. The opening images of desert hills and a droning electronic chord allude to the beginning of “2001: A Space Odyssey ” whose murderous apes are part of a Darwinian continuum with Daniel Plainview. But the film is above all a consummate work of art one that transcends the historically fraught context of its making and its pleasures are unapologetically aesthetic. It reveals excites disturbs provokes but the window it opens is to human consciousness itself." ” Paul Thomas Anderson’s epic American nightmare arrives belching fire and brimstone and damnation to Hell. Set against the backdrop of the Southern California oil boom of the late-19th and early-20th centuries it tells a story of greed and envy of biblical proportions  — reverberating with Old Testament sound and fury and New Testament evangelicalism  — which Mr. Anderson has mined from Upton Sinclair’s 1927 novel “Oil!” There is no God but money in this oil-rich desert and his messenger is Daniel Plainview a petroleum speculator played by a monstrous and shattering Daniel Day-Lewis." the novel has provided him with something he has lacked in the past a great theme. It may also help explain the new film’s narrative coherence. His first feature “Sydney” (also known as “Hard Eight”) showed Mr. Anderson to be an intuitively gifted filmmaker someone who was born to make images with a camera. His subsequent features — “Boogie Nights ” “Magnolia” and “Punch-Drunk Love”  — have ambition and flair though to increasingly diminished ends. Elliptical self-conscious at times multithreaded they contain passages of clarity and brilliance. But in their escalating stylization you feel the burdens of virtuosity originality independence." whose pursuit of oil reads like a chapter from this nation’s grand narrative of discovery and conquest. His 1911 strike puts the contradictions of this story into graphic visual terms. Mr. Anderson initially thrusts you close to the awesome power of the geyser which soon bursts into flames then pulls back for a longer view his sensuously fluid camera keeping pace with Plainview and his men as they race about trying to contain what they’ve unleashed. But the monster has been uncorked. The black billowing smoke pours into the sky and there it will stay." then strike it rich and transform a bootstrapper’s dream into a terrifying prophecy about the coming American century. It’s a century he plunges into slicked in oil dabbed with blood and accompanied by H. W. (eventually played by the newcomer Dillon Freasier) the child who enters his life in 1902 after he makes his first strike and seems to have burbled from the ground like the liquid itself. The brief scenes of Plainview’s first tender awkward moments with H. W. will haunt the story. In one of the most quietly lovely images in a film of boisterous beauty he gazes at the tiny pale toddler chucking him under the chin as they sit on a train very much alone." cribbing from Martin Scorsese and Robert Altman among others (he helped the ailing Altman with his final film “A Prairie Home Companion”) but rarely has his movie love been as organically integrated into his work as it is here. Movie history weighs on every filmmaker informs every cut camera angle and movement. “There Will Be Blood” is very much a personal endeavor for Mr. Anderson; it feels like an act of possession. Yet it is also directly engaged with our cinematically constructed history specifically with films  —  “Greed” and “Chinatown ” but also “Citizen Kane” — that have dismantled the mythologies of American success and in doing so replaced one utopian ideal for another namely that of the movies themselves." brutal title character in Frank Norris’s 1899 novel “McTeague ” and Erich von Stroheim’s masterly version of the same “Greed.” But the two characters are brothers under the hide coarse and animalistic sentimental in matters of love and ruthless in matters of avarice. Mr. Anderson opens his story in 1898 closer to Norris’s novel than Sinclair’s which begins in the years leading up to World War I. And the film’s opener is a stunner  — spooky and strange blanketed in shadows and nearly wordless. Inside a deep dark hole a man pickaxes the hard-packed soil like a bug gnawing through dirt. This is the earth mover the ground shaker: Plainview." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/26/movies/26alie.html
Daniel C. Pearl; edited by Dan Zimmerman; music by Brian Tyler; production designer Andrew Neskoromny; creature effects designers and creators Alec Gillis and Tom Woodruff Jr.; produced by John Davis David Giler and Walter Hill; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes." ” as the new film is subtitled has nothing to be ashamed of. It may not be classic sci-fi like the original “Alien ” which it has in its DNA but it’s a perfectly respectable next step in the series." in Antarctica. The new one which opened Tuesday first finds itself in the sewers of a Colorado town where the title um characters are doing battle. And then after the intergalactic struggle moves to the local power plant the electricity for the whole region is knocked out. Bring your night-vision goggles to this one." because it doesn’t bother to provide any back story but here’s the gist of it: The predators from the “Predator” films hunt the aliens of the “Alien” films using Earth as a sort of practice range because the aliens breed inside humans." the hybrid hatches aboard a predator space ship all heck breaks loose and the crash-landing is the result." or go with the resourceful Ms. Aylesworth to look for a helicopter? Robert Joy is a perfect low-key villain in military guise." gore and salty language." Reiko Aylesworth (Kelly) John Ortiz (Morales) Johnny Lewis (Ricky) Robert Joy (Colonel Stevens) and Ariel Gade (Molly)." the directors and Shane Salerno the screenwriter give the humans in the story much more attention than they received in the first film which makes for a far more watchable movie. The story is fairly generic try-to-get-away stuff but it’s decently rendered. There are a couple of classic horror-film bits in among the sci-fi — oh you young people don’t you know that skinny dipping attracts malevolent creatures? — and even one pretty funny joke." which have escaped from the crashed ship and are busily suction-cupping onto the faces of every Coloradoan in sight." like its predecessor one very dark movie. Not psychologically dark; dark  dark as in not very generously lighted." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/25/movies/25pers.html
but it is also whimsical and daring a perfect expression of the imagination’s resistance to the literal-minded and the power-mad who insist that the world can be seen only in black and white." for the most part discreetly and obliquely drawn." Marjane following her grandmother’s example takes an impetuous stand as a champion of enlightenment. Though she is self-confident and sometimes a little self-righteous Ms. Satrapi doesn’t wrap herself in heroism. The political dimensions of her story are as clear and bold as her graphic style but “Persepolis” traffics more in feelings than in slogans and dwells most persuasively on the uncertainty and ambivalence of adolescence." Marjane’s parents (her father is voiced by Simon Abkarian) send her to Austria and the alienation she experiences there is a sad counterpart to the anxiety of Tehran. She loses herself for a while in punk rock and other alternative pleasures but finds little to sustain her in the easy nihilism of European alternative culture. And it is in Vienna that the full pathos of her situation becomes clear a dilemma that is hardly hers alone. Either she can be more or less free and give up her home or she can return home at the cost of her freedom and individuality." ” it is good to be reminded that animation is rooted not in any particular technique but in the impulse to bring static images to life. And “Persepolis ” austere as it may look is full of warmth and surprise alive with humor and a fierce independence of spirit. Its flat stylized depiction of the world —  the streets and buildings of Tehran and Vienna in particular  —  turns geography into poetry." Catherine Deneuve and Danielle Darrieux the three formidable French actresses who give voice to young Marjane her mother and her grandmother. Sony Pictures Classics which is releasing “Persepolis” in the United States could easily have dubbed it into English a change that might have broadened the film’s appeal for a subtitle-phobic American audience. But then we would have missed the music of those incomparable movie star voices and also a delightful parallel between cast and characters. Ms. Deneuve is Ms. Mastroianni’s mother in real life and Ms. Darrieux played Ms. Deneuve’s mother in “The Young Girls of Rochefort” 40 years ago." ” a source of humor advice and moral guidance for young Marjane and also an embodiment of the film’s no-nonsense feminism. Like her grandmother Marjane is a natural rebel someone who takes freedom as her birthright and dares the world to challenge her." on which it is based the film directed by Ms. Satrapi and Vincent Paronnaud consists essentially of a series of monochrome drawings their bold black lines washed with nuances of gray. The pictures are arranged into the chronicle of a young girl’s coming of age in difficult times a tale that unfolds with such grace intelligence and charm that you almost take the wondrous aspects of its execution for granted." Ms. Satrapi’s account of her youth in pre- and post-revolutionary Iran would not have been quite as moving or as marvelous. Similarly if the movie version had been conventionally cast and acted it would inevitably have seemed less magical as well as less real." Catherine Deneuve (Tadji) Danielle Darrieux (Marjane’s grandmother) Simon Abkarian (Ebi) Gabrielle Lopes (young Marjane) and François Jerosme (Uncle Anouche)." Ms. Satrapi as a writer and filmmaker seems utterly devoid of self-pity. Grandma whose life was long difficult and rich clearly had no time for such indulgences and it is not hard to see that Marjane lived up to her example." the world obliges. Marjane grows up in a family of left-wing intellectuals who suffer first under the Shah’s dictatorship and then as the triumphant Islamic revolutionaries turn on their secular allies under the rule of the mullahs. This political history which includes war torture and execution is conveyed with impressive economy and visual wit. The beards of male religious zealots — and the chadors of their female counterparts —  are like black holes in the screen sucking away the light. (Later during Marjane’s exile in Vienna a straying boyfriend is transformed from an angel-headed paragon into a sniveling buck-toothed cretin.)" with English subtitles) and directed by Marjane Satrapi and Vincent Paronnaud based on the graphic novels by Ms. Satrapi; animation coordinator Christian Desmares; edited by Stéphane Roche; music by Olivier Bernet; production designer Marisa Musy; art director Marc Jousset; produced by Marc-Antoine Robert and Xavier Rigault; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/25/movies/25wate.html
the film consistently evokes an authentic sense of time and place and features remarkable computer-generated graphics work from Weta Workshop the company responsible for the groundbreaking visuals of the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy." its survival skills are put to the test and the aggressive pursuit of the creature by townspeople and visiting soldiers alike stirs up “King Kong”-esque feelings of dread." Alex Etel (Angus MacMorrow) Ben Chaplin (Lewis Mowbray) David Morrissey (Captain Hamilton) and Brian Cox (Narrator)." ” based on a novel by Dick King-Smith a  boy Angus (Alex Etel) finds not only that but a best friend as well after the mysterious egg he stumbles across hatches a creature unlike any he’s ever seen. Adorable and full of mischief his new companion Crusoe who looks something like a cross between a dinosaur and a snail immediately adds spice to his drab life." serving as the film’s present-day narrator. His character’s identity offers no surprise — nor does much else in the film — but that detracts little from this family-friendly escapist fare that should enthrall without insult fantasy-minded viewers of any age." based on the novel “The Water Horse” by Dick King-Smith; director of photography Oliver Stapleton; edited by Mark Warner; music by James Newton Howard; production designer Tony Burrough; special effects by Weta Digital and Weta Workshop; produced by Robert Bernstein Douglas Rae Barrie M. Osborne and Charlie Lyons; released by Sony Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/25/movies/25deba.html
the literary and historical references blithely tossed around by the team members show astounding erudition and their speaking voices carry only the tiniest hint of an East Texas twang." the actor playing James Jr. is unrelated to either Mr. Washington or to Forest Whitaker. It is worth noting that the senior Farmer was the first African-American in Texas to earn a doctorate. His son a leader of the civil-rights movement in the 1950s and ’60s founded the Congress of Racial Equality." Tolson driving home from a debate with his students comes upon a lynching. The flashes of the hideous atrocity sear your mind and when the mob still riled with blood lust chases the car your heart is in your throat. Afterward Henry’s shame and stifled fury drive him to a self-destructive spree." a soupçon of romance is required. The movie dawdles only as long as necessary on the pudgy cow-eyed young James’s hopeless infatuation with Samantha who becomes romantically involved with Henry." the triumph of the sanctified underdog an intrepid spirit who doesn’t compromise his integrity on the slippery path to victory may be much the worse for wear in these Darwinian times but it can still produce a lump in your throat. The real tale  of the unlikely ascendance  of the debate team at Wiley College a small all-black institution in Marshall Tex. in 1935 follows the template of countless sports movies. Perseverance and teamwork lead to untarnished glory." where it actually took place. Again the issue is too neatly selected: nonviolent civil disobedience versus the rule of law." Forest Whitaker (James Farmer Sr.) Nate Parker (Henry Lowe) Jurnee Smollett (Samantha Booke) Denzel Whitaker (James Farmer Jr.) Jermaine Williams (Hamilton Burgess) Gina Ravera (Ruth Tolson) John Heard (Sheriff Dozier) and Kimberly Elise (Pearl Farmer)." a handsome clean-cut youth with a lurking bad-boy streak; Hamilton Burgess (Jermaine Williams) a dutiful eager beaver whose family pressures him to drop out when Tolson’s radical political organizing comes to light; Samantha Booke (Jurnee Smollett) a strait-laced aspiring lawyer and soft-edged proto-feminist; and James Farmer Jr. (Denzel Whitaker) a preacher’s son whose father (Forest Whitaker) keeps him on a tight leash." an activity synonymous with nerdiness needs a shot of adrenaline to be sexy to a mass audience. Early in the movie Tolson barks with the ferocity of a Marine Corps drill instructor “Debate is a blood sport.” As the team starts winning his severity never diminishes. The debates themselves are swiftly edited compendiums of best-of moments." it implies sow the seeds of the civil-rights movement which is also foreshadowed in the debates whose topics too conveniently address civil-rights issues. Strangely the Wiley College team always argues the progressive view. Its initial push to break the color barrier in college debating by competing with a white college in Oklahoma is too neatly paralleled by the debate topic: whether blacks should be allowed to attend state universities. A more intellectually subtle less manipulative movie would have had the Wiley team arguing at least once against African-American interests." its literacy its passionate belief in education its faith that history teaches invaluable lessons and its strong emotionally grounded performances: There are enough things to admire about “The Great Debaters ” the heavily fictionalized true story of The Little Debate Team That Could that your impulse is to forgive the movie its shortcomings." though not in its content “The Great Debaters” is the sequel to Mr. Washington’s 2002 directorial debut “Antwone Fisher ” in which he played a Navy psychiatrist whose tough love helps save a broken soul. Here he portrays the noted poet social activist and educator Melvin B. Tolson who coached the Wiley College team. Righteous autocratic and fearless Mr. Washington’s Tolson is a screen descendant of the stern East London schoolteacher played by Sidney Poitier 40 years ago in “To Sir With Love.” If Mr. Washington’s two films are considerably richer in content than that civil rights-era weepie at heart they are no less sentimental." based on a story by Mr. Eisele and Jeffrey Porro; director of photography Philippe Rousselot; edited by Hughes Winborne; music by James Newton Howard and Peter Golub; production designer David J. Bomba; produced by Todd Black Kate Forte Oprah Winfrey and Joe Roth; released by the Weinstein Company and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. Running time: 2 hours 3 minutes." accompanied by his family accidentally runs over a pig his humiliation at the hands of the owner and his redneck buddies makes your stomach turn." Mr. Washington imbues him with the authority of a persuasive orator and a moral Rock of Gibraltar." “The Great Debaters” may not aspire to be more than inspirational pop entertainment in the Oprah Winfrey mode (Ms. Winfrey is one of its producers) but unlike so many films of its ilk it doesn’t insult your intelligence. And it reminds you that social history airbrushed for the screen by Hollywood is preferable to none at all. Despite its cosmetic embellishments “The Great Debaters” obviously emanates from the heart. It makes you nostalgic for prototypes like Stanley Kramer’s socially conscious message movies of the 1950s and ’60s and for the era that produced them." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/25/movies/25buck.html
both men in temporary remission appear as robust as the rejuvenated seniors in “Cocoon.”" “The Bucket List” fails its stars in fundamental ways. Mr. Nicholson has played wealthy rogues before (most recently in “Something’s Gotta Give”) but this particular bon vivant is unsalvageably repellent. The actor’s frantic mugging guffawing and eyebrow twitching only underscore the character’s pompous self-satisfaction. By the time the movie allows Edward a token gesture of humanity (his guilt-stricken attempt to reunite with an estranged daughter he cruelly betrayed) it is too little too late." neither actor adds a note that we haven’t seen before. Given less than a year to live Edward and Carter flee the hospital to board Edward’s private jet for a final blowout underwritten by Edward." the professed spiritual goals on the pair’s checklist of things to do — “laugh till you cry ” “witness something majestic” — are the kind of pallid bromides found in the pages of a quickie self-help book: “I’m Not O.K. and Neither Are You.”" Carter keeps himself in mental shape by watching “Jeopardy!” and competing out loud with the contestants. During their travels he is a font of geographic and historical trivia." like sky diving and race car driving are high-adrenaline stunts embraced with macho zeal; they even visit a tattoo parlor. As they follow an itinerary that takes them to the south of France the Pyramids the Taj Mahal the Himalayas and Hong Kong these stopovers obviously filmed on a soundstage have all the reality of snapshots photographed in front of travel posters." Mr. Freeman cannot begin to make you believe that a quiet family man like Carter would abandon his loyal wife (Beverly Todd) during his final months of life to go on a spree with a rascally egomaniac. I don’t imagine Mr. Freeman believes it either." Los Angeles and Toronto." Morgan Freeman (Carter Chambers) Sean Hayes (Thomas) Rob Morrow (Dr. Hollins) and Beverly Todd (Virginia)." ” a roster of must-have experiences to be pursued before “kicking the bucket.” We are asked to accept that this dignified sage has been happily toiling as an auto mechanic for 46 years after forgoing his higher education to support a family. Anyone this articulate and composed would have risen far above day-laborer status." fuzzy box office magic. I wouldn’t count on it. Stars or no it is an open question whether audiences will flock to a preposterous putatively heartwarming buddy comedy about two men diagnosed with terminal cancer living it up in their final months." no billionaire in his right mind would endure such humiliation in an institution he is knowingly bleeding to death; he would have his own deluxe private suite somewhere else. Edward however does have gourmet food supplied by his obedient assistant Thomas (Sean Hayes) which he lustily consumes until chemotherapy takes away his appetite along with his hair." John Schwartzman; edited by Robert Leighton; music by Marc Shaiman; production designer Bill Brzeski; produced by Craig Zadan Neil Meron Alan Greisman and Mr. Reiner; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes." the happily married Carter demurs when opportunity presents itself. But nothing has ever prevented Edward who has been married and divorced four times from pursuing continuous novelty. The movie mercifully spares us the spectacle of Mr. Nicholson whalelike at 70 in full rutting mode." cancer patients who meet cute in the room they share in a hospital owned by Edward. A greedy billionaire health care mogul Edward is a victim of his own ruthless cost-cutting program that decrees two to a room in his cramped establishment." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/21/movies/21swee.html
with all the songs Mr. Sondheim composed for it “Sweeney Todd” balanced its inherent grisliness with a whimsical vitality. The basic story is a revenger’s tragedy more Jacobean than Victorian but Mr. Sondheim nonetheless wrings some grim boisterous comedy out of both the impulse for vengeance and the bustling spirit of commerce. A barber wronged by a powerful judge returns to London and sets up shop cutting throats as well as hair. The bodies of his victims are turned into savory meat pies by Mrs. Lovett his energetic partner in business and crime. Cannibalism and mass murder as the basis for a hit show — what a perverse and delicious joke." he was a happy husband and father until his lovely wife (Laura Michelle Kelly) caught the eye of a malignant judge (Alan Rickman) who transported the poor barber to Australia. Now after many years he has returned to find that his daughter now a teenager has become the judge’s ward. Finding his old straight razors — “my friends” — under the floorboards of his former shop Sweeney sets out to ensnare the judge a project that requires the deaths of quite a few customers along the way." but amazingly forceful. He brings the unpolished urgency of rock ’n’ roll to an idiom accustomed to more refinement and in doing so awakens the violence of Mr. Sondheim’s lyrics and melodies. Some of the crowd-pleasing numbers like “The Ballad of Sweeney Todd ” have been pared away but their absence only contributes to the diabolical coherence of the film which moves with a furious momentum toward its sanguinary conclusion." ” sings the practical Mrs. Lovett. Sweeney’s view is harsher almost genocidal. “They all deserve to die ” he says looking out over the rooftops of the city. And Mr. Burton depicts those deaths ruthlessly. The initial geyser of blood may seem artificially bright but when the bodies slide head first from the chair down a chute into the cellar they crash and crumple with sickening literalness. You are watching human beings turned into meat." which starred Michael Cerveris and Patti Lupone in roles originated on Broadway by Len Cariou and Angela Lansbury in 1979. Mr. Burton’s film in spite of the participation of Sacha Baron Cohen (as a mountebank barber in a skin-tight costume) and Timothy Spall (as a louche bailiff) pretty much casts out frivolity altogether. Mr. Burton’s London is a dark smoky oil slick of a city. Dante Ferretti’s production design which owes something to the Victorian city confected for Carol Reed’s “Oliver! ” can make even daylight look sinister. Innocence represented by a pair of young would-be lovers (Jayne Wisener and Jamie Campbell Bower) has virtually no chance in this place; it is a joke played by fate something to be corrupted imprisoned or destroyed." replaced on one hand by vain and arbitrary power on the other by a righteous fury that quickly spirals into madness. There may be a suggestion of hopefulness near the end but you don’t see hope on the screen. What you see is as dark as the grave. What you hear — some of the finest stage music of the past 40 years — is equally infernal except that you might just as well call it heavenly." ” Mr. Burton’s film adaptation of Mr. Sondheim’s musical is as dark and terrifying as any motion picture in recent memory not excluding the bloody installments in the “Saw” franchise. Indeed “Sweeney” is as much a horror film as a musical: It is cruel in its effects and radical in its misanthropy expressing a breathtakingly rigorously pessimistic view of human nature. It is also something close to a masterpiece a work of extreme — I am tempted to say evil — genius." a witchy fixture of Mr. Burton’s cinematic universe as well as the mother of his children. If the director has an alter ego or at least an actor consistently able to embody his ideas on screen it would have to be Johnny Depp. He was the hurt misunderstood man-child in “Edward Scissorhands ” the cracked visionary in “Ed Wood” and the cold creepy candy mogul in “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ” in each case giving  form to an emotional equation that had never quite been seen on film before. As Sweeney his hair streaked with white and his eyes rimmed in black he is an avatar of rage." Helena Bonham Carter (Mrs. Lovett) Alan Rickman (Judge Turpin) Timothy Spall (Beadle) Sacha Baron Cohen (Pirelli) Jayne Wisener (Johanna) Jamie Campbell Bower (Anthony Hope) and Laura Michelle Kelly (Lucy/Beggar Woman)." based on the musical by Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler from an adaptation by Christopher Bond; director of photography Dariusz Wolski; edited by Chris Lebenzon; music and lyrics by Mr. Sondheim; production designer Dante Ferretti; produced by Richard D. Zanuck Walter Parkes Laurie MacDonald and Mr. Logan; released by DreamWorks Pictures and Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes." but it’s been a long time since a movie gave me nightmares. And the unsettling power of “Sweeney Todd” comes above all from its bracing refusal of any sentimental consolation from Mr. Burton’s willingness to push the most dreadful implications of the story to their blackest conclusions." or of two popular artists who have so systematically subverted that optimism. Mr. Sondheim has always gravitated toward the dissonance lurking in hummable tunes and has threaded his song-and-dance spectaculars with subtexts of anxiety and alienation. Mr. Burton for his part dwells most naturally (if somewhat uneasily) in the realms of the gothic and the grotesque turning comic books and children’s tales into scary nightmarish shadow plays." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/21/movies/21char.html
drug references and violence." cheering present-day moral to be found in Charlie Wilson’s story a reminder that high principles are not incompatible with the pleasure principle. The good guys are the ones who know how to have a good time and who counter the somber certainties of totalitarianism with the conviction that fun is woven into the fabric of freedom." after all a mighty blow for freedom was struck by a congressman with an alleged fondness for snorting blow. And let’s not be too quick to dismiss the wisdom of his sidekick a C.I.A. operative with a bad temper and a worse haircut: “If you’re gonna do this you might as well have fun with it.”" at any rate is pretty much the gist of “Charlie Wilson’s War ” which may be more of a hoot than any picture dealing with the bloody protracted fight between the Soviet Army and the Afghan  mujahedeen has any right to be. As the film observes that fight in which the United States semi-secretly armed Muslim anti-imperialist  freedom fighters for much of the 1980s was a prequel to later trouble with anti-Western Islamic terrorists in Afghanistan and elsewhere." as golden as an Oscar statue incarnates Ms. Herring as if paying tribute at once to Barbara Stanwyck and to the legions of anonymous Julia Roberts impersonators toiling in drag clubs across the land. I mean this entirely as praise: Not many movie stars have the wit or the moxie to embrace the camp elements of their own personas and the character is clearly something of a performer in her own right." which may be why so few of us have bothered to go see them. Of course all wars are terrible but good movies have a way of mitigating that dreary fact even as they acknowledge it. Take the cold war: a “long twilight struggle” (as John F. Kennedy put it) that brought the world to the brink of annihilation and provided a persistent source of tension anxiety and dread for hundreds of millions of people around the world. Horrible to be sure. But also kind of a blast." Julia Roberts (Joanne Herring) Philip Seymour Hoffman (Gust Avrakotos) Amy Adams (Bonnie Bach) Ned Beatty (Doc Long) Emily Blunt (Jane Liddle) Om Puri (President Zia) Ken Stott (Zvi) John Slattery (Cravely) Denis O’Hare (Harold Holt) and Jud Tylor (Crystal Lee)." that may be because the director Mike Nichols and the screenwriter Aaron Sorkin grasp that politics for all its seriousness is an essentially comic undertak- ing. Their film is never glib or flippant but instead shows a lightness of touch and a swiftness of attack — 96 minutes to drink some cocktails make some deals and send the Russians packing —  that stand in welcome contrast to the plodding somber earnestness of some recent movies I will tactfully refrain from naming." he’s very much in his element: soaking in a Las Vegas hot tub with a Playboy model and a sleazy television producer among others his hand wrapped around a glass of Scotch and his mind focused on the consequences of Soviet aggression. God bless America! As understood by Mr. Nichols and Mr. Sorkin who have filleted George Crile’s fascinating 500-page bestseller into a trim and lively history lesson Wilson is both an anomaly and a paragon." he finds common cause (among other satisfactions) with Joanne Herring a right-wing Houston socialite who loves Jesus and martinis and hates Communism. She is a splendid American contradiction standing up for liberty and godliness while getting into bed (literally) with a bachelor congressman and (metaphorically) with President Zia  (Om Puri) the military ruler of Pakistan." a Democrat who represented Texas’s Second Congressional District in the House of Representatives. Mr. Wilson who retired from the House in 1996 is played with sly rascally charisma by Tom Hanks. It is always a pleasure to see Mr. Hanks play against clean-cut type and here he has the devilish smile of a middle-aged playboy who has woken up in a long-lost guilt-free sequel to “Bachelor Party.”" hard-partying jihad  is Gust Avrakotos (Philip Seymour Hoffman) a C.I.A. operative whose first appearance in Charlie Wilson’s office sends the movie tipping momentarily and deliciously into pure door-slamming farce. Gust whose Greek blood and rust-belt background make him something of a misfit among the blue bloods of the Agency is as frustrated as Charlie is by the refusal of the United States to arm the Afghan resistance and so the two of them cook up an elaborate scheme involving Israel Pakistan a belly dancer and a compliant House Subcommittee chairman (Ned Beatty)." based on the book by George Crile; director of photography Stephen Goldblatt; edited by John Bloom and Antonia Van Drimmelen; music by James Newton Howard; production designer Victor Kempster; produced by Tom Hanks and Gary Goetzman; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." and also a man of conscience as his patient all-seeing assistant (Amy Adams) is pleased to discover." and the filmmakers relate it with clarity and verve. The film’s high spirits are inseparable from its sober purpose which is to present a gentle corrective to the idea that American heroism resides only in square-jawed melancholy stoicism. That has been the preferred post-9/11 stance and there is some evident nostalgia in “Charlie Wilson’s War” for the simpler world of the 1980s when the bad guys flew MIGs and American political life was perhaps a touch less sanctimonious." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/21/movies/21walk.html
Uta Briesewitz; edited by Tara Timpone and Steve Welch; music by Michael Andrews; production designer Jefferson D. Sage; produced by Mr. Apatow Mr. Kasdan and Clayton Townsend; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." Dewey is cuddly and cute not Iggy or pop. Partly as a consequence the film is more funny ha-ha than LOL; it’s a smarty-pants satire that mocks and embraces almost every cliché in the biography playbook. The usual characters enter on cue hitting their marks and the expected emotional notes including Ma Cox (the wonderful Margo Martindale) and Pa Cox (Raymond J. Barry) who rear  Dewey in a shotgun shack not far from where Ray Charles played in the dirt before he grew up to become Jamie Foxx and win an Academy Award. Like Ray Dewey is a musical prodigy and it isn’t long before he’s making the girls swoon. But by then he’s become Buddy Holly with a child bride more befitting Jerry Lee Lewis." though mostly you’ll probably just tap your foot. It’s a cleverly packaged story about a patently phony musician — er John C. Reilly is Dewey Cox — who conquers the nation’s eardrums with a song in his heart a guitar in his hands and a million clichés in his DNA. He’s a tuneful pastiche: a little bit country a little bit rock ’n’ roll topped off with a pinch of Ray Charles a dash of Buddy Holly and a whole mess of Johnny Cash as filtered through Joaquin Phoenix’s impersonation and mischievously repurposed through the Judd Apatow laugh factory." of course the Todd Haynes-Cate Blanchett take on that same period in “I’m Not There.” Mr. Kasdan shifts visual styles or at least color schemes as often as Dewey changes outfits. But despite the kaleidoscopic twirling time traveling and a giddy visit with the Beatles in India “Walk Hard” is surprisingly flat. Part of the problem is that it sticks so close to the films that inspired it that it actually echoes some of their flaws. The June Carter-Reese Witherspoon story in “Walk the Line” was pretty much a drag; the sendup in “Walk Hard ” which features Jenna Fischer as Darlene is so accurate that it is too." and “Walk Hard” glitters with recycled biopic verisimilitude from the cars to the clothes to the nagging first wife (Kristen Wiig) and especially the music. Written by a team of collaborators the close to 20 songs jump from early rock ’n’ roll (“Take my ha-ha-hand”) to the Johnny Cash-style anthem of the film’s title and a genius Dylan-esque rune delivered in twanging singsong in which “mailboxes drip like lampposts in the twisted birth canal of the coliseum ” “fairy teapots mask the temper tantrum/O’ say can you see ’em ” “stuffed cabbage is the darling of the Laundromat ” and" drugs and rock ’n’ roll." though given how close the two follow the recent biopic template some credit rightly belongs to the writers of “Ray” and “Walk the Line.” Like those films “Walk Hard” tells an upbeat story about a great talent who finds renown but also stumbles into temptation. “Ray” and “Walk the Line” are soft targets near-parodies of the form which suits this film just fine since Mr. Apatow and Mr. Kasdan have no plans to burn down the house. Dewey doesn’t shoot up backstage or beat his woman much less drown in his vomit or hang himself in the family kitchen as Ian Curtis does in “Control ” the downbeat version of the same old rock ’n’ roll story." just good vibrations. He’s fun to hang around even though I wish he and the film had made room for madness and not only faithful mimicry. Like all of Mr. Apatow’s films “Walk Hard” is naughty but it’s also awfully nice a word that has no place in rock ’n’ roll. Maybe that’s why I kept waiting (hoping) for the Dewey Cox promised in the film’s poster which shows Mr. Reilly — in homage to Jim Morrison — wearing only a necklace and a goofy what-me-worry gape. He still looks more like Alfred E. Neuman than the Lizard King true but there he also seems on the actual verge of letting it all hang out." Jenna Fischer (Darlene Madison Cox) Tim Meadows (Sam) Kristen Wiig (Edith Cox) Raymond J. Barry (Pa Cox) Harold Ramis (L’Chai’m) Margo Martindale (Ma Cox) Chris Parnell (Theo) Matt Besser (Dave) and David Krumholtz (Schwartzberg)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/21/movies/21trea.html
“National Treasure ” this sequel amounts to a bunch of crossword puzzle answers stitched together with explosions chases and displays of intuitive reasoning that the “Twin Peaks” F.B.I. agent Dale Cooper would reject as too right-brained." Patrick Gates (the improbably dignified Jon Voight); Ben’s techie sidekick Riley Poole (Justin Bartha) who extricates Ben from impossible situations and serves up expository softballs; and Ben’s now-ex-girlfriend Abigail Chase (Diane Kruger) whose dalliance with the press secretary (Ty Burrell) of the president of the United States enables the gang to hunt for clues in the Oval Office." Ben plots to kidnap the current president (Bruce Greenwood) and blah blah blah purple monkey dishwasher." really) by Jon Turteltaub the “National Treasure” films substitute trivia for poetry and busyness for thrills. The protracted climax of “Book of Secrets ” set in a dimly lighted waterlogged Cibola (you thought they wouldn’t find it?) plays like a promotional reel for a forthcoming Disney World attraction. A London car chase that should be nerve-racking is merely noisy." the fabled lost city of gold. To clear the Gates family name the good guys must prove the existence of Cibola by finding the long-dispersed fragments of a map one of which is hidden in a compendium of secrets handed down from president to president." but they can’t approach memories of Indy outrunning a boulder and Eva Marie Saint dangling near George Washington’s face." Ben Franklin Gates (Nicolas Cage flexing his deadpan) on a globetrotting quest that might have been devised after a long night of Wikipedia surfing." based on a story by the Wibberleys Greg Poirier Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio based on characters created by Jim Kouf Oren Aviv and Charles Segars; directors of photography John Schwartzman and Amir Mokri; edited by William Goldenberg and David Rennie; music by Trevor Rabin; production designer Dominic Watkins; produced by Mr. Turteltaub and Jerry Bruckheimer; released by Walt Disney Pictures and Jerry Bruckheimer Films. Running time: 2 hours 4 minutes." Emily Appleton (Helen Mirren) a scholar of ancient languages who is sly and sexy even while translating pre-Columbian glyphs; and a rival archaeologist and Confederate sympathizer named Mitch Wilkinson (Ed Harris) who brazenly accuses a Gates ancestor Thomas Gates (Joel Gretsch) of collaborating with Abraham Lincoln’s assassin John Wilkes Booth." Jon Voight (Patrick Gates) Harvey Keitel (Agent Sadusky) Ed Harris (Mitch Wilkinson) Diane Kruger (Abigail Chase) Justin Bartha (Riley Poole) Helen Mirren (Emily Appleton) and Bruce Greenwood (the President)." coherence and plausibility matter as much here as they did in the Indiana Jones films and “North by Northwest” (a film whose Mount Rushmore set piece “Book of Secrets” unwisely invokes). But Steven Spielberg and Alfred Hitchcock’s escapist pictures were more than time wasters. They offered dreamily intense predicaments lived-in relationships (like Indy’s with his estranged father in “Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade”) for which the prickly banter of Ben and Patrick is a pale substitute and action scenes built from dynamic shots that interlocked like stained-glass window panels." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/21/movies/21stee.html
” a documentary about extreme skiing insists he is not hooked on the adrenaline rush of this death-defying sport. His denial is hard to believe." who in 1991 won the first World Extreme Ski Championship in Valdez. With his wife Emily he founded Valdez Heli-Ski Guides which made the Chugach Range in Alaska a magnet for skiers who are dropped off by helicopter on mountain peaks from which they descend at lightning speeds." who died while skiing with friends on April 3 2006 reflects on the risks of his sport and sounds resigned to his luck eventually running out. To the detached observer the line between this cheerful fatalism and flirting with suicide seems imperceptible." photographed in high-definition video by Erich Roland is an undeniably impressive visual spectacle that follows the sport from Wyoming to France British Columbia Iceland and Alaska. Like that of its sister sport surfing extreme skiing has a history of one feat topping another as techniques are developed and challenges devised." Glen Plake a wild man with a two-foot high Mohawk and its composed apparently fearless female virtuoso Ingrid Backstrom. Pushing the limits of extreme skiing is Shane McConkey who has pioneered ski basing: skiing off a cliff at full speed carrying a parachute." two of whose hubs visited by the movie are Chamonix in the French Alps and Valdez. The sport’s popularity has been spread by video with Greg Stump’s 1988 film “The Blizzard of Aahhh’s ” cited as a seminal work." written and directed by Mark Obenhaus skiers hurtle down slopes at angles of 55 degrees or greater and leap off precipices into the unknown. The tiniest miscalculation we are repeatedly told could result in death." wildest most dangerous slopes and for perfect snow. Perfection is to be found according to the movie in the extreme-skiing mecca of Valdez Alaska where the white stuff has the texture of velvet." which has a high fatality rate worth pursuing at all costs. There is a lot of mystical mumbo jumbo about how mountains are living breathing things whose moods must be gauged before you venture onto their slopes; on a bad day a grouchy mountain can bite back." witnessed by no one but attested to by aerial photographs of his ski tracks was all the more remarkable because he was born without a hip joint and multiple surgeries had left him with a limp." Erich Roland; edited by Peter R. Livingston Jr.; music by Anton Sanko; produced by Jordan Kronick and Gabrielle Tenenbaum; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/21/movies/21love.html
Ms. Swank has not often been cast as a romantic foil opposite men. She wooed another woman beautifully in “Boys Don’t Cry ” and in “Million Dollar Baby” played the adoring daughter to a surrogate father a symbolic romance conducted principally inside the confines of a boxing ring. One reason she was so good in Brian De Palma’s convoluted noir “The Black Dahlia ” in which she crept around like poison ivy is that her performance as a femme fatale is set inside quotation marks. She didn’t register as a toxically dangerous woman but as an idea of that irresistible sexist cliché. She filled out her character’s snug gown as  a drag queen would." who shares screenwriting credit with Steven Rogers it has a curious morbid quality. Ms. Swank plays Holly Kennedy a 29-year-old New Yorker who shortly after the story takes off becomes a widow. Her husband Gerry (Gerard Butler) however doesn’t fully disappear. Instead he visibly lingers in her apartment — he seems less like a ghost than like a manifestation of mad grief  — and in the letters he left behind. These letters are full of bossy instructions for Holly on how to grieve and live. They are in essence a primer on how to be a widow." ” about the agonies visited on a young married couple as the big-screen equivalent of a paperback romance. Certainly the refined critical mind understands that this is the kind of artful emotion machine that the movies have been making since the very first tear slid down an actress’s face the droplet seen — and experienced — around the world by audiences who answered that bead of dew with a grateful flood of their own. Cry us a river Mary Pickford!" who last directed Ms. Swank in the sympathetic drama “Freedom Writers ” is in sync with his star from the get-go. He puts her in the middle of the frame and in a succession of mostly flattering outfits and smartly surrounds her with well-ripened second bananas notably Kathy Bates as Holly’s protective mother and Lisa Kudrow and Gina Gershon as her best friends. Harry Connick Jr. swings in and out as a possible love interest as does the temperature-raiser Jeffrey Dean Morgan a television actor (“Grey’s Anatomy ” “Weeds”) who bears a striking physical resemblance to Javier Bardem. Mr. Morgan’s appearance in “P. S. I Love You” finishes off Mr. Butler (last seen slaughtering Persians in “300”) far more effectively than does Gerry’s terminal illness." a sneery label calculated to insult the film and the teary filmgoer alike. There aren’t a lot of these made anymore in America mainly because most of our movies now are about men and not women. Even so there are plenty of covert male weepies films that transform emotions into actions including acts of violence. “Michael Clayton” is a male weepy as is “American Gangster ” which turns a duel between tough guys into a veritable drum circle of two. “P.S. I Love You” is more obviously a weepy but because it leavens sorrow with laughter it probably requires no more than three hankies. I wouldn’t know: I just used the back of my hand." a square-jawed beauty at once angular and bosomy vaguely masculine and unequivocally feminine whose greatest roles — in “Boys Don’t Cry” and in particular “Million Dollar Baby” — have exploited her ambiguous physicality to enormous advantage. Like some of the greatest sob sisters of the big screen — think of Barbara Stanwyck and Joan Crawford — she has a kind of working-class toughness bordering on hardness that makes the eventual cracks in her armature all the more effective. Unlike Stanwyck and Crawford though Ms. Swank can come across as intensely almost desperately eager to please which invests her with tremulous pathos or makes you feel embarrassed on her behalf. Stanwyck would have booted her offscreen. Crawford would have eaten her for breakfast." and there are several cringe-worthy set pieces some involving Mr. Butler and a guitar. The film is not a beautiful object or a memorable cultural one and yet it charms however awkwardly. Ms. Swank’s ardent sincerity and naked emotionalism dovetail nicely with Mr. LaGravenese’s melodramatic excesses: Together the director and his star create a swell of feeling that helps blunt your reservations about being played as an easy mark a sap or worse a girl even if that’s exactly what you are." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/19/movies/19dist.html
scabrously funny portrait of multiethnic European urban culture similar to Ralph Bakshi’s early-1970s adults-only animated movies “Fritz the Cat” and “Heavy Traffic ” but richer and more coherent than either of those. It’s set in contemporary Budapest where a group of streetwise Hungarian teenagers use a time machine (invented by their school’s resident nerd genius) to travel back to the prehistoric era and bury mammoths beneath what will eventually become their city’s streets." but that get-rich-quick scheme is complicated by the attentions of Vladimir V. Putin Tony Blair and George W. Bush (who in a bit of satire Michael Moore would enjoy adds Hungary to his list of oil-rich nations worth attacking)." “The District!” also offers a gangsta-flavored surprisingly heartfelt update of “Romeo and Juliet” filled with loving directorial nods to “West Side Story” and Spike Lee’s “Do the Right Thing.” The cartoon’s trash-talking hero Ricsi Lakatos affiliated with a Gypsy street gang hatches the time-travel plot hoping to acquire enough money to win the beautiful but ethnically off-limits Julika Csorba a Hungarian gang boss’s daughter." this is a dazzlingly assured piece of filmmaking. Merging seemingly hand-drawn two-dimensional characters and deep-focus intricately shadowed simulated 3-D backdrops “The District!” is like a dirty thrilling pop-up book  you can step into." envisioned by Aron Gauder the director with a mix of direct-address close-ups and anime-inspired combat poses complete with blurred backgrounds." no small triumph in a year that also included  the releases of “Persepolis ” “Ratatouille ” “Beowulf” and “Paprika.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/19/movies/19flak.html
Zooey Deschanel (Miss Pussy Katz) Christopher Lloyd (Willie) Frank Wood (Bruce) Ryan Donowho (Skinny Larry) Izabella Miko (Strawberry) and Keir O’Donnell (Stuart)." called Flakes are lined with cereal boxes including rare discontinued brands. As customers slop up exotic combinations the movie suggests a deadpan spoof of gourmet fetishism. One house specialty  —  chocolate-flavored grains steeped in chocolate milk  —  sounds particularly nauseating." hoping that the demise of the original Flakes will leave Neal with time to finish his CD. If the name of his band Cereal Killers is perfectly chosen its music is a joke." ” a movie that shares the smug hipper-than-thou sensibility of its sour protagonist Neal Downs (Aaron Stanford)." Neal is a reflexively sarcastic deadbeat whose equally sour girlfriend Pussy Katz (Zooey Deschanel) shares his bohemian dream of traveling the country in an Airstream trailer making music and art." a decrepit hippie geezer with mad-scientist hair Flakes limps along as a hangout for deadbeats until a bright-eyed yuppie visitor Stuart (Keir O’Donnell) proposes turning it into a lucrative franchise. When Willie and Neal express no interest Stuart establishes a rival Flakes across the street and the New Orleans cereal wars begin." Nancy Schreiber; edited by Nicholas C. Smith; music by Jason Derlatka and Jon Ehrlich;  produced by Gary Winick and Jake Abraham; released by IFC First Take. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie’s anti-establishment attitude evaporates as does the teeny bit of levity “Flakes” has generated." Neal begins playing dirty tricks the nastiest of which is the distribution of fliers to the homeless promising 10 free bowls per customer at his rival’s establishment. The prank sets off a near-riot that Stuart skillfully turns to his advantage." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/movies/14revo.html
and it’s not pretty. This small nation was a satellite state of the former Soviet Union for much of  that time except for a brief period when the Germans controlled it." especially Estonian culture was brutishly suppressed but it welled up every five years in July when Estonians gathered in Tallinn for the Estonian song festival which often drew upward of 25 000 people. The  images  of these festivals  are moving already; the force of the singers and the precision of their conductors are stunning to behold." who advocated glasnost and got more than he bargained for." ” a documentary by James Tusty and Maureen Castle Tusty about Estonia’s struggle to end Soviet occupation shows that it already has." then multiply its power by a factor of thousands and you’ve only begun to imagine the force of “The Singing Revolution.”" Ms. Castle Tusty and Mike Majoros; narrated by Linda Hunt; director of photography Miguelangel Aponte-Rios; edited by Mr. Majoros; music by John Kusiak; produced by Ms. Castle Tusty Mr. Tusty Bestor Cram Artur Talvik Piret Tibbo-Hudgins and Thor Halvorssen; released by Abramorama. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/movies/14half.html
haunting and magical “Half Moon” balances delicately between the harsh realities of its location and the mystical power of Mamo’s visions. Shooting mainly in Iranian Kurdistan the cinematographers Nigel Bluck and Crighton Bone find an unearthly beauty amid the gambling frenzy of a cockfight and the silent ranks of exiled female singers lining the rooftops of a mountain village. As the end of the journey draws near the line between the natural and the supernatural becomes increasingly difficult to discern." “Half Moon” is an affecting contemplation of resilience in the face of tragedy. When a higher purpose beckons death itself must take a back seat." with English subtitles) produced and directed by Bahman Ghobadi; director of photography Nigel Bluck and Crighton Bone; edited by Hayedeh Safiyari; music by Hossein Alizadeh; production designers Mansooreh Yazdanjoo and Mr. Ghobadi; released by Strand Releasing. At the Imaginasian Theater 239 East 59th Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes. This film is not rated." “Half Moon ” the Kurdish-Iranian writer and director Bahman Ghobadi returns to the breathtaking desolation of the Kurdish borderlands and the enduring optimism of his people." Allah Morad Rashtiani (Kako/Bus Driver) Hedye Tehrani (Hesho/Singer) Hassan Poorshirazi (Border Policeman) Golshifteh Farahani (Niwemang) and Sadiq Behzadpoor (Shouan)." Mamo (Ismail Ghaffari) a famed Kurdish musician living in Iran gathers his many sons for a trip across the border to Iraqi Kurdistan and a long-planned celebratory concert. Despite failing health and his offspring’s fluctuating commitment to the dangerous enterprise Mamo is resolute; neither callous border guards nor his own recurring premonitions of disaster will derail the performance." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/movies/14yout.html
and by turns bewitching inspiring enervating and confounding. The unlikely source material is a novella by Mircea Eliade a prolific Romanian-born historian of religion  (1907-86) who wrote about myth ritual yoga shamanism and folklore and among other pursuits charted the divide between how time is experienced by so-called primitive man (cyclically) and his modern counterpart (linearly). For Dominic Matei (Tim Roth) the Romanian question mark at the center of Mr. Coppola’s adaptation of the Eliade novella time doesn’t begin here and end there (despite the film’s opening and closing credits); it swirls like wind-scattered leaves." well how to encapsulate someone else’s dream? In brief outline it opens with Dominic his body stooped and head crowned by a snowy tonsure being struck by lightning while hurrying across a rainy Bucharest street in 1938. Subsequently hospitalized (Bruno Ganz helps care for him) Dominic loses his teeth sprouts new ones and miraculously reverts to his physical prime complete with a thick head of hair. Over the next few decades through a haze of elliptical drifting scenes he remembers an old love (Alexandra Maria Lara) romps with a femme fatale (Alexandra Pirici) settles in Switzerland finds a new love (Ms. Lara) absorbs libraries of knowledge travels to India speaks in archaic tongues and takes counsel from his intermittently visible double (Mr. Roth)." where Dominic’s fantastical life — easy enough to absorb in written form — takes visible shape. Suddenly instead of interesting nouns adjectives and philosophical meditations on the divide between reality and unreality there is Mr. Roth (or at least his representation) wearing early-20th-century clothing and pushing through a thicket of narrative complication. He looks somewhat baffled though that may admittedly be my own projection. Mr. Coppola has created some strikingly beautiful images in “Youth Without Youth” — his framing remains impeccable as does his sense of color proportion and pictorial harmony — but too many of these lovely mysterious visions have the aspect of private reveries dreams still locked inside the dreamer’s head." “but the objective reality of the ‘double’ or the guardian angel.” The double may not exist empirically but he exists nonetheless perhaps as a projection of a madman or the dream of a dying man. (We never discover which.) Whatever the case the precise nature of Dominic’s double and the metaphysical questions it (he) inspires work well enough on the page in part because the exterior world summoned up in the Eliade story is of course a projection of sorts — words on paper nothing more." for the legacy he’s fiddled with — he released restored versions of two of his earlier films “Apocalypse Now” and “The Outsiders” — and for the female   director he sired. It’s been 10 very long years since Sofia Coppola’s father released a new feature but now here he is with “Youth Without Youth ” a narratively ambitious visually sumptuous surrealist enterprise in which he has tried to bend time and space together as neatly as the folds in an origami swan." the pre-eminent mind-machine of the modern age and the desire of an older established long-dormant director to tap into creative (metaphoric) youth by exploring some of the same cinematic concerns that possessed modernist filmmakers like Antonioni. In this film Mr. Coppola blurs dreams and everyday life and suggests that through visual and narrative experimentation he has begun the search for new ways of making meaning new holy places for him and for us. He may not have found them yet but then he’s just waking up." sexual congress female nudity metaphysics." the first foreign city we visit when we’re young — that reveal a reality beyond our ordinary existence. And because we experience different realities thresholds — like those found between the street and the church — are of great importance. “The threshold is the limit ” he writes “the boundary the frontier that distinguishes and opposes two worlds — and at the same time the paradoxical place where those worlds communicate where passage from the profane to the sacred world becomes possible.” He might as well be writing about the street and the movie theater." based on a novella by Mircea Eliade translated by Cristina Tirulnic; director of photography Mihai Malaimare Jr.; edited by Walter Murch; music by Osvaldo Golijov; production designer Calin Papura; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 2 hours 6 minutes." Alexandra Maria Lara (Veronica/Laura) Bruno Ganz (Professor Stanciulescu) André M. Hennicke (Dr. Josef Rudolf) Marcel Iures (Professor Tucci) Alexandra Pirici (Woman in Room 6) Adrian Pintea (Pandit) and Florin Piersic Jr. (Dr. Gavrila)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/movies/14warh.html
who is Mr. Williams’s niece does a pretty good job of reconstructing the creative and psychological whirlwind around Warhol. His critics and his apologists have their say as do old associates whose ambivalence is as acute now as it must have been in  the mid-’60s.  The conflicting occasionally harmonizing testimony of Brigid Berlin John Cale Paul Morrissey and others is fascinating but Danny Williams himself remains the missing piece despite clips from 16-millimeter  films he shot. Though she interviews his mother  (her grandmother)  and several  of his siblings Ms. Robinson provides little detail about her uncle’s life and virtually nothing about his pre-Warhol existence. And the film one suspects by accident as much as by design feels tentative and unfinished the incomplete pursuit of suspected secrets that remain undisclosed." and  some of the people interviewed in the documentary  say he was Warhol’s lover or at least occasional sex partner as well. Old pictures show a handsome smart-looking young man and Factory veterans remember him that way some of them with remarkable vividness. In 1966 Mr. Williams disappeared near his family’s house on the Massachusetts coast. His body was never recovered and the causes of his presumed death remain mysterious. Was it suicide a drug overdose an accident? Was Warhol somehow to blame?" ” which starred Sienna Miller as Edie Sedgwick a well-born New Englander who appeared in some of Warhol’s films. The notion is implicit in “A Walk Into the Sea ” Esther B. Robinson’s documentary about Danny Williams a former  Harvard  student   who was also part of the Factory scene." Adam Cohen; edited by Ms. Kennedy; music by T. Griffin; produced by Ms. Robinson Doug Block and Tamra Raven; released by Arthouse Films and Red Envelope Entertainment. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 18 minutes. This film is not rated." Andy Warhol continues to exert a powerful almost queasy fascination not only because of his work — which has proven more durable and interesting than it may have seemed before — but also because of the enigma of his personality. He has become a recurrent figure in movies documentary and otherwise where he is often  inscrutable and vaguely sinister a watchful predator in relation to the young people who surrounded him in the 1960s Factory days." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/movies/14look.html
Ron Forsythe; edited by Martin Apelbaum; music by B T; produced by Brad Wyman and Barry Schuler; released by Vitagraph Films. At Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes." “Look” grows less compelling and believable as it unreels. And the less said about Mr. Rifkin’s rampaging duo of “Candid Camera Killers” — a “Natural Born Killers”-flavored version of those subplot-linking devices that Robert Altman used to employ with such aplomb — the better." Giuseppe Andrews (Willie) Spencer Redford (Sherri Van Haften) Rhys Coiro (Ace) Heather Hogan (Holly) Jennifer Fontaine (Louise) Ben Weber (Marty) Paul Shackman (Ben) Chris Williams (George Higgins)  and Jamie McShane (Barry Krebbs)." ” an unsettling rudely funny but not entirely credible feature by the writer and director Adam Rifkin is an ensemble narrative for the age of public surveillance." Mr. Rifkin and his imaginative cinematographer Ron Forsythe explore how surveillance devices have complicated the act of deception by eroding the distinction between public and private space. (Note to self: don’t pick your nose on an elevator.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/movies/14lege.html
whose amiability makes him easy to underestimate as an actor deserves his share of the credit. There are not many performers who can make themselves interesting in isolation without human supporting players. Tom Hanks did it in “Cast Away ” with only a volleyball as his buddy foil and straight man. Mr. Smith has a few more companions including an expressive German shepherd some department store mannequins and a high-powered rifle. (There are also some flesh-eating virus-crazed zombies about which more in a moment.) But it is the charismatic force of his personality that makes his character’s radical solitude scary and fascinating as well as strangely appealing." but it’s unlikely that Will Smith is one. His irresistible charm has been proved above all by his ability to attract audiences to bad movies like “Hitch” and “Wild Wild West ” as well as to better ones like “Ali” and “The Pursuit of Happyness.” In spite of its third-act collapse into obviousness and sentimentality “I Am Legend” — in which Mr. Smith plays somebody with every reason to believe that he really is the last man on earth — is among the better ones." like the rabid dogs that are their companions nonetheless display rudimentary pack behavior and are even able to set traps and make plans. Once they begin swarming “I Am Legend” inevitably loses some of its haunting originality since they look a lot like the monsters in “28 Days Later” (and its sequel “28 Weeks Later”). They also represent a less compelling application of computer-generated imagery than all those empty avenues and silent buildings." with chases and explosions and a redemptive softening of its bleak premise. The presence of the lovely Brazilian actress Alice Braga does seem promising; if she and Mr. Smith were to reboot the species together Humanity 2.0 would be quite a bit sexier than the present version as well as friendlier. But really the movie is best when its hero is on his own and Mr. Smith walking in the footsteps of Vincent Price and Charlton Heston who played earlier versions of the Robert Neville character outdoes both of them. There is something graceful and effortless about this performance which not only shows what it might feel like to be the last man on earth but also demonstrates what it is to be a movie star." flesh-eating zombies." who previously directed the hectic obnoxious “Constantine” and many music videos uses elaborate computer-assisted means to create simple striking effects. While “I Am Legend ” the latest in a series of film versions of a novel by Richard Matheson fits comfortably within the conventions of the sci-fi horror genre — here come those zombies! — it mixes dread and suspense with contemplative almost pastoral moods. And without taking itself too seriously the movie written by Akiva Goldsman and Mark Protosevich does ponder some pretty deep questions about the collapse and persistence of human civilization." a scientist and a soldier constitutes a civilization of one. His daily routines are at once practical — he wants to find a cure for the virus that wiped everyone else out and he needs to be home before sundown — and spiritual. Under the streets of the city and in its empty buildings are the infected transformed by the virus into pale hairless light-allergic cannibals. “Social de-evolution appears to be complete ” Neville observes as he makes notes in his basement lab. And his habits are a way not only of protecting himself from the zombies but also of maintaining the distinction between them and him." and to some degree upstaged by the island of Manhattan which the movie’s director Francis Lawrence has turned into a post-apocalyptic wilderness. Three years after an epidemic has caused the evacuation and quarantine of New York City Robert Neville (Mr. Smith) is its sole diurnal human resident and he spends his days roaming its desolate neighborhoods at once wary and carefree. The streetscapes he wanders through will be familiar to any visitor or resident but the way Mr. Lawrence and his team of digital-effects artists have distressed and depopulated New York is downright uncanny. Weeds poke up through the streets which are piled with abandoned cars and a slow visible process of decay has set in." of course but not without its enchantments. In some ways Neville dwelling in a highly developed urban space that is also a wilderness experiences the best of both worlds. From his home base in the elegant Washington Square town house he was lucky enough to own (on a government employee’s salary) before the big die-off he makes daylight forays that are like an adventure-tourist fantasy. He does a little deer hunting on Park Avenue and some indoor fishing at the Temple of Dendur picks fresh corn in Central Park and smacks golf balls across the Hudson from the deck of the aircraft carrier Intrepid." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/movies/14kite.html
a 38-year-old novelist known as Amir (played in the film by the Scottish-born Khalid Abdalla) certainly seems like the real deal a sense of authenticity underscored by the book’s evocation of the Afghan diaspora in America its descriptions of traditions and rituals and the numerous italicized words like “Kocheh-Morgha” (“Chicken Bazaar”) and “Shirini-khori” (“ ‘Eating of the Sweets’ ceremony”).  That said it is difficult to believe in the authenticity of any book (and its author) in which a born and bred Afghan  narrator asks of the Taliban — as this one does in June 2001 — “Is it as bad as I hear?” David Benioff’s clumsy screenplay doesn’t broadcast its political naïveté as openly but only because the filmmakers seem to assume that unlike the book’s readers the movie audience doesn’t care about such matters.   Mr. Benioff gestures in the direction of Communists and mullahs the Soviet invaders and the Taliban insurgents but none of these players figure into the story in any meaningful fashion. The director Marc Forster following the script’s  lead scrupulously avoids politics and history — there are no causes or positions just villains and horrors — and instead offers us a succession of atmospheric realistic landscapes colorful sights and smiling boys. And kites. Lots and lots of bobbing darting high-flying kites." “The Kite Runner” recounts a simple yet shrewd story about that favorite American pastime: self-improvement. Amir’s childhood mistake isn’t a careless juvenile offense; it’s a human stain that must be scrubbed out through self-abnegation confession and personal transformation. Yet watching this film you are  left to wonder whom precisely is all this suffering for — is it for Amir? Hassan? Afghanistan? Or do Hassan and the story’s other sad children — especially those hollow-eyed boys and girls glimpsed during the preposterous climax in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan — suffer because it’s possible to package other people’s pain and turn it into a commercial diversion? It’s no surprise that for all its foreign trappings “The Kite Runner” tells the same old comforting story. We wouldn’t have it any other way." write and fly kites. He worships his gruff father Baba (Homayoun Ershadi) a businessman who swills alcohol and dismisses the mullahs as “monkeys.” Amir in turn is adored by the illiterate servant boy Hassan (Ahmad Khan Mahmoodzada) whose father has worked for Baba his entire life. Amir loves his younger friend in his selfish fashion but because Baba favors Hassan (if not enough to educate the boy) Amir  also betrays him." ” another story ignited by the destructive behavior of a pubescent child “The Kite Runner” presents a world informed by a variant of original sin. In both a child’s damaging words and deeds give way to — and seem to foreshadow and somehow even to incite  — the larger violence of war. The two stories register very differently both on the page and on screen yet what’s curious is how each presents childhood as an already corrupted state that is redeemed only by adult grace. In these stories war becomes a kind of cleansing agent for the destructive child who after enduring hardships matures into a properly contrite adult (and a fiction writer to boot)." “The Kite Runner” tells the story of an Afghan refugee who long after arriving in America sifts through memories of his cosseted childhood his emotionally remote father his devoted best friend the kites they flew and the stories they shared. The back of my paperback copy of this Khaled Hosseini  novel is sprinkled with words like “powerful” and “haunting” and “riveting” and “unforgettable.” It’s a good guess that this film will be rolled around in a similarly large helping of lard." based on the novel by Khaled Hosseini (in Dari with English subtitles);  director of photography Roberto Schaefer; edited by Matt Chessé; music by Alberto Iglesias; production designer Carlos Conti; produced by William Horberg and Walter F. Parkes; released by Paramount Vantage. Running time: 2 hours 8 minutes." Atossa Leoni (Soraya) Shaun Toub (Rahim Khan) Sayed Jafar Masihullah Gharibzada (Omar) Zekiria Ebrahimi (Young Amir) Ahmad Khan Mahmoodzada (Young Hassan) and Homayoun Ershadi (Baba)." who previously directed “Monster’s Ball” and “Finding Neverland ” has been soundly defeated by “The Kite Runner.” Despite the film’s far-flung locations (it was shot primarily  in China) there is remarkably little of visual interest here; the setups are banal and the scenes lack tension which no amount of editing can provide. With the exception of Mr. Ershadi whom art-house audiences may remember from Abbas  Kiarostami’s “Taste of Cherry ” it also lacks credible performances. The two lead child actors both nonprofessionals are predictably appealing but only because they’re children. Unlike Mr. Kiarostami who has a genius for translating the natural rhythms of nonprofessional performers to the screen who siphons real life and bottles it Mr. Forster never makes you believe in these children or their woes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/movies/14chip.html
David Cross (Ian Hawk) and Cameron Richardson (Claire)." Matthew Gray Gubler (Simon) and Jesse McCartney (Theodore)." a rejected songwriter who meets the mischievous Alvin brainy Simon and pudgy Theodore transplanted tree dwellers who have raided his kitchen. When he discovers their unique vocal harmonies he’s off to a record executive (a delightfully despicable movie-stealing David Cross) who whisks the trio away to exploit their talent for all it’s worth." alas its animated protagonists are egregiously eclipsed by the live-action characters. Despite its shout-outs to the holiday season this is essentially airplane fodder not a perennial. Don’t hold your breath waiting for the sequel." Dave is the critters’ surrogate dad and the film concerns his need to embrace that responsibility and save the boys from a showbiz life they’re too young for. The movie gets mileage out of the chestnuts “The Chipmunk Song (Christmas Don’t Be Late)” and “Witch Doctor” (you remember: “Oo-ee oo-ah-ah ting-tang walla-walla bing-bang”) its digs at the music industry and the cheap laughs of the big-beseeching-eye effect of Puss in Boots in the “Shrek” movies." ” a slick updating of the musical-cartoon franchise created by Ross Bagdasarian Sr. in 1958. Remodeled over the years on television and recordings the ’munks have been given a digital coat of paint this time out but the movie doesn’t skimp — lasso those nostalgic parents! — on the memories of old." Will McRobb and Chris Viscardi based on a story by Mr. Vitti; director of photography Peter Lyons Collister; edited by Peter E. Berger; music by Christopher Lennertz; production designer Richard Holland; produced by Ross Bagdasarian Jr. and Janice Karman; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/movies/14arra.html
based on a story by Mr. Schaefer and Yuta Silverman; director of photography Dan Hersey; edited by Erin Greenwell; music by Sohrab Habibion and Michael Hampton; production designer Keren Kohen; released by Film Movement. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." “Arranged” is a doctrinaire wolf in rebel-sheep’s clothing. Within its cloistered boundaries patriarchy can’t help but prevail." Francis Benhamou (Nasira) John Rothman (Matan) Mimi Lieber (Sheli) Laith Nakli (Abdul-Halim) Doris Belack (Elona) and Alysia Reiner (Leah)." Diane Crespo and Stefan C. Schaefer’s well-meaning but oblivious film presents ostensibly modern young women who are nevertheless defined solely by their faith. Whatever their misgivings capitulation to tradition is inevitable given that representations of the secular life are limited to a stunningly insensitive school principal —  “There was a women’s  movement you know” —  and Rochel’s navel-flaunting cousin Leah (Alysia Reiner). In the film’s most unintentionally hilarious scene Leah takes Rochel to a party where a clean-cut young man offers her a drink and asks her to dance. Eyes wide with horror Rochel flees faster than a Sabine woman with Romulus on her heels." an Orthodox Jew this entails tiresome sessions with a Yentelike matchmaker and a string of nebbishy suitors. For Nasira (Francis Benhamou) a Syrian-born Muslim future connubial bliss has taken the dismaying form of a hirsute hopeful from the homeland. No matter; both women are about to learn that happiness lies in conformity and that whatever your beliefs Father always knows best." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/12/movies/12perf.html
a plus-size elf who when called upon has trouble squeezing into a Santa suit and Jizzy’s is his exasperated manager Delicious (Katt Williams).  Lurking on the sidelines are Queen Latifah as the unctuous Christmas angel who narrates the story and Terrence Howard as her troublemaking opposite Bah-Humbug." ” directed by Lance Rivera is that most dispiriting product a formulaic movie that doesn’t believe in itself. The farcical contortions are stiff the jokes flat the romance half-baked the acting rote and the familial bonhomie lukewarm. Watching the movie is like reaching into a Christmas stocking and pulling out handfuls of cheap plastic toys that are broken." Gabrielle Union (Nancy) Queen Latifah (Narrator) Terrence Howard (Bah-Humbug) Malik Hammond (John-John) Charlie Murphy (J-Jizzy) Khail Bryant (Emily) Faizon Love (Jamal) Katt Williams (Delicious) Jeremy Gumbs (Mikey) Jill Marie Jones (Robin) and Rachel True (Brenda)." Teodoro Maniaci; edited by Paul Trejo; music by Christopher Lennertz; production designer Anne Stuhler; produced by Shakim Compere Liefur B. Dagfinnsson Mike Elliott Joseph P. Genier Queen Latifah Marvin Pearlt and Mr. Rivera; released by Yari Film Group. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes." Emily (Khail Bryant) overhears Mom confiding to a friend that all she wants for Christmas is a compliment from a man she passes along the wish to the handsome Santa at the local mall. In real life he is Benjamin (Morris Chestnut) a conveniently unmarried struggling songwriter whose latest opus a squishy mound of seasonal goo of the sort J-Jizzy could never write reaches the rapper’s hands at an opportune moment." a divorced mother of two boys and a girl glumly faces Christmas in New Jersey without a man in her life. Rubbing salt in her wounds is her ex-husband J-Jizzy (Charlie  Murphy) a preening rap star with whom she is locked in a custody battle. Swathed in chinchilla he is stymied on his current project a Christmas album that includes gems like “I Love the Ho Ho Hos.”" who noticed Nancy at the mall takes Emily’s cue tracks down the mother and delivers the requested compliment then disappears. Nancy and her posse eventually find him and romance blossoms. The only obstacle to happily-ever-after is Nancy’s older son John-John (Malik Hammond) who takes an instant loathing to Benjamin. But the chances that Santa is Mr. Right are about as good as those of hearing “Jingle Bells” in a department store during the Christmas season." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/12/movies/12nank.html
incisive documentary about one of the lesser-known horrors of the 20th century: the 1937 Japanese invasion of the Chinese city now called Nanjing where more than 200 000 civilians and prisoners of war were slaughtered in a matter of weeks. The capital of the Republic of China at the start of World War II and the headquarters of the Chiang Kai-shek government this attractive cosmopolitan city of parks and thoroughfares was largely destroyed in what is known as the rape of Nanking." a Christian missionary and chairwoman of the education department at Ginling College who saved countless women from rape by hiding them from the marauding soldiers." who was born in China the son of an American missionary. He was the only surgeon to remain in Nanjing after the Japanese began bombing the city." much of the population had fled and only 22 Westerners remained. Mr. Wilson Mr. Rabe and Mr. Magee were among the six people who formed a committee to establish the safety zone in the western part of the city for the remaining civilians." written testimony read aloud still carries a weight that the most horrifying images cannot exert. Shown sparingly in the film the pictures of the dead and seriously injured may sear your mind but the act of recalling the unspeakable and giving it voice creates a deeper reality." it is widely agreed that during the occupation in 1937 and 1938 more than 20 000 rapes were also committed by the rampaging Japanese Army. In its concentrated savagery the catastrophe was comparable to the even more numerous mass murders in Rwanda in 1994." an imperious German businessman and Nazi Party member who used his status to try to halt the violence; when Mr. Rabe who harbored 650 Chinese civilians on his estate eventually returned to Germany he was ordered never to speak of what he had seen." Mariel Hemingway (Minnie Vautrin) Jürgen Prochnow (John Rabe) John Getz (George Fitch) Stephen Dorff (Lewis Smythe) Rosalind Chao (Chang Yu Zheng) Chris Mulkey (Mills McCallum) Michelle Krusiec (Yang Shu Ling) Graham Sibley (Miner Searle Bates) Hugo Armstrong (John Magee) Sonny Saito (Sakai Hiroshi) Robert Wu (Chinese soldier)." an Episcopal minister and amateur filmmaker who set up a hospital for wounded solders. “Nanking” includes excerpts from grainy 16-millimeter film he shot of the grotesquely disfigured  patients. His film was smuggled out of the country at considerable peril and only discovered in Germany in the 1980s." Mandarin and Japanese with English subtitles) by Mr. Guttentag Mr. Sturman and Elisabeth Bentley based on a story by Mr. Sturman; director of photography Buddy Squires; edited by Hibah Frisina Charlton McMillan and Michael Schweitzer; music by Philip Marshall; produced by Ted Leonsis Mr. Guttentag and Michael Jacobs; released by ThinkFilm and HBO Documentary Films. At  Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." would they respect its borders? As the rest of the city was burned and looted the safety zone was regularly breached as the Army searched for Chinese soldiers disguised as civilians. But thousands of lives were saved." directed by Bill Guttentag and Dan Sturman has the format of a mixed-media theater piece. Interwoven with rare vintage news clips of the city’s bombing invasion and occupation are readings by actors from journals and letters kept by the few Westerners who remained in the city during the siege. Additional grisly firsthand recollections by now elderly Chinese survivors and Japanese soldiers tell a story that has become painfully familiar in the age of information overload: a collective fever of blood lust can lead to a kind of mass insanity in which the rules of civilized behavior are suspended." six years after the Japanese occupied Manchuria and established a puppet state Japan began a full-scale invasion of China. While fighting a fierce ground war in Shanghai Japan also began heavy air raids on Nanjing." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07visi.html
” the first feature by the Israeli writer and director Eran Kolirin flirts recklessly with obviousness cuteness too. This sweet-and-sour comedy opens with the band which has traveled to Israel to perform at an Arab cultural center arriving at an airport without a welcoming committee. Dressed in nearly identical uniforms and smart caps their nut-brown skin working a vivid chromatic contrast with the robin’s-egg blue of their costumes the men enter the film in silence immobilized by professional reserve or perhaps just bewilderment. For the orchestra’s unsmiling leader Tewfiq — the magnificently sober Sasson Gabai — the initial lack of a welcome will prove to be only the first bump on an increasingly rough and rutted road." especially when they’re lined up like French schoolgirls (or ducklings). Mr. Kolirin wrings even more visual humor from this contrast by placing the men in the center of the image and ensuring that they don’t move for several beats which locates them in spatial and existential isolation. It’s a facile familiar movie trick and Mr. Kolirin comes close to wearing it out before the band even leaves the airport largely because massing the men in this fashion threatens to diminish their individuality. But it’s a clever stratagem  too because the comedy eases you into the story and obscures the currents of seriousness swirling under the film’s surface." English and Hebrew with English subtitles) and directed by Eran Kolirin; director of photography Shai Goldman; edited by Arik Lahav Leibovitz; music by Habib Shehadeh Hanna; production designer Eitan Levi; produced by Eilon Ratzkovsky Ehud Bleiberg Yossi Uzrad Koby Gal-Raday and Guy Jacoel; released by Sony Pictures Classics. In Manhattan at the Lincoln Plaza Broadway at 62nd Street. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes." the eight Egyptian members of the Alexandria Ceremonial Police Orchestra look a bit like a joke in search of a punch line. If “The Band’s Visit” were any other kind of film — a little more pat say and rather less knowing — these eight souls might quickly transform into mere props in a small-scale sermon about Middle East man’s humanity  to Middle East man minus the politics of course." but Mr. Kolirin also seems to be saying that a specific loneliness haunts Israel as well. At one point Dina blurts out to Tewfiq that she and her family used to love watching Egyptian movies on television. The streets of Israel she says her voice swelling were empty because everyone else was watching too. But that was then and now Dina and the rest of these Israeli townspeople sit in this seemingly barren land with its pregnant silences and wait. Surrounded by desert a few longingly invoke the sea summoning a desire but for what? Mr. Kolirin I think suggests that this longing is for something the poet Marcia Falk calls the “Eternal wellspring of peace.”" it emerges is wrenching comedy out of intense melancholia. Much of that melancholy involves Tewfiq; the band’s roguish violinist Haled (Saleh Bakri smooth as glass); and an Israeli restaurant owner Dina (the great Ronit Elkabetz) a brusque untamed beauty who offers the two  shelter. (The other band members bed down elsewhere.) Over the course of a long peripatetic evening these three will unite and separate fumble and parry. Finally they will reunite in Dina’s apartment where as they sit wearily around a table Mr. Kolirin will cut from one face to the next in tight close-up. Despite their tentative sometimes tender exchanges the three remain essentially alone an isolation underscored by the shallow depth of field that leaves only their faces in poignant focus." the band has arrived in an Israeli town the wrong Israeli town having successfully journeyed from forgotten to mislaid. There amid the dust and the wind the Egyptians meet a handful of curious (and agonizingly bored) Israelis who with degrees of easy and grudging hospitality offer them shelter food distraction engagement a few nips of booze some shaky turns around a roller-skating rink and curious fleeting companionship. Amid the awkward conversations (spoken in lightly halting and fluid English) the even more uncomfortable silences bits of music and some nicely executed physical comedy the Egyptians and the Israelis circle one another warily. Love doesn’t exactly bloom in this desert but a sense of unarticulated longing does." Ronit Elkabetz (Dina) Saleh Bakri (Haled) Khalifa Natour (Simon) Imad Jabarin (Camal) and Tarak Kopty (Iman)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07moda.html
“The Holy Modal Rounders ... Bound to Lose”  casts an affectionate eye on the kind of hedonism no one is meant to survive." ” opines the former music editor of The Village Voice Robert Christgau pondering Mr. Weber’s swashbuckling lifestyle. The film’s poignant ending however wonders only if it can bring you back." they established an enduring musical and pharmaceutical bond. The result was the Holy Modal Rounders now celebrating their fifth decade of bouncy bizarre music substance abuse and rotating personnel." Sam Wainwright Douglas and Paul Lovelace’s rollicking documentary encapsulates a career spent alternately circling fame and the drain. While Dennis Hopper raves about the Rounders song he chose for the “Easy Rider” soundtrack the actor and playwright Sam Shepard describes his experience as a former drummer for the band as “renegade insanity.” A hilarious clip of the band’s appearance on “Rowan & Martin’s Laugh-In” leaves Mr. Shepard mystified. “We were on ‘Laugh-In’?”" Jesse Fisher Francis Hatch and Mr. Lovelace. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 1 hour 27 minutes. This film is not rated." Ore. its real subject is the rocky reconnection of the founders after almost 20 years. While the genial Mr. Stampfel is now a sober family man Mr. Weber — who once mistook a half-gallon of vodka for his wife — still appears to enjoy various unspecified  pleasures." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07mirr.html
at any rate. In Mr. Lerner’s film you hear boos after “Like a Rolling Stone.” But that’s a great performance as is the encore an acoustic version of “It’s All Over Now Baby Blue” that seems less penitential than triumphant. Those songs provide a thrilling climax to the film without quite overshadowing the others which are culled from Mr. Dylan’s Newport appearances in 1963 ’64 and ’65 and  presented out of chronological order." it stars the man himself with a few of his colleagues and friends: Joan Baez Johnny Cash and the Paul Butterfield Blues Band members of which  played backup for Mr. Dylan at the 1965 festival when he shocked the folk establishment by “going electric.”" Mr. Lerner Stanley Meredith George Pickow and Francis Grumman; edited by Alison Heim Einar Westerlund George Panos Pagan Harlemann Howard Alk and Mr. Lerner; released by MLF Productions. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated." and not for the first time it seems as if everyone wants to be Bob Dylan. There are the half-dozen impersonators in Todd Haynes’s “I’m Not There ” soon to be followed by John C. Reilly in a few scenes of “Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story ” and behind them there are several generations of guitar strummers and harmonica blowers Dylanizing in the streets and subway tunnels of every major city in the world." Mr. Dylan found himself not just at a musical crossroads edging from folk and protest songs toward rock ’n’ roll and rhythm and blues but also at a collision point between the diffident folkie ethic and the frenzy of celebrity culture. Mr. Lerner catches glimpses of Mr. Dylan’s transition from a troubadour in a work shirt to something like a rock star. But mostly he shows a skilled charismatic musician developing beyond the scene where he first established himself." for that matter if you were — “The Other Side of the Mirror” places you in perfect seats out of the sun and wind and without any extraneous contextualization. It’s a remarkably pure and powerful documentary partly because it’s so simple. The sound mix is crisp the black-and-white photography is lovely and the songs above all can be heard in all their earnest enigmatic glory performed by an artist whose gifts are at once mysterious and self-evident." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07grac.html
her poker face becomes graver and her attitude more remote; outside the motels they visit she spends hours sitting curbside and brooding." during which we are shown a revealing picture of highways crowded with chain stores and shopping malls. As Stanley improvises their erratic route Heidi begins to sense that something is terribly amiss." written and directed by James C. Strouse evokes the daily lives of a father and his two children in perfect unassuming performances and with a close attention to detail that makes you feel like a fifth member of the family.  The household consists of Stanley Phillips (John Cusack) the blocky good-hearted manager of a home-supply store and his daughters the 12-year-old Heidi (Shelan O’Keefe) and  the 8-year-old Dawn (Gracie Bednarczyk)." ” a small tender film about contemporary parenthood in wartime carries off a delicate balancing act. How do you portray the tragic effects of the Iraq war on the home front without sounding shrilly partisan or evasively neutral? How do you avoid jingoism cynicism or mawkishness?" ” which is Mr. Strouse’s directing debut (he wrote the screenplay for Steve Buscemi’s “Lonesome Jim”) is so seamless that any prodding of the story calls attention to itself. The most glaring moments of manipulation are Stanley’s phone calls home to hear Grace on the answering machine and to leave a personal message.  It is perfectly plausible that Stanley  would want to hear her voice now and again but those heartfelt messages in which he vents his grief and sorrow are another matter." the screenplay signals that until now the girls have been much closer to their mother. Stanley buys them pretty dresses and allows them to have their ears pierced." the other Phillipses studiously pretend that she is not in harm’s way. Watching television coverage of the war is forbidden in their home although Heidi sneaks occasional looks. Before Grace left she and Dawn synchronized the alarms on their watches so they would beep simultaneously;  when the signal comes the little girl closes her eyes in prayerful communion." and there is some strong language." he is at a loss for words. He impulsively decides to prolong their innocence and announces that the three of them are going on a trip to wherever the girls desire. Dawn pipes up that she wants to visit Enchanted Gardens a theme park in Florida." he has several hours to decide how to tell to them." Stanley and the girls try to visit his mother (who is away) and find his scruffy younger brother John (Alessandro Nivola) a floundering student and bitter opponent of the war sprawled on the couch. The movie allows John’s sarcastic criticisms to stand without serious counter-argument beyond Stanley’s professing his loyalty and trust in the powers that be. One of Donald H. Rumsfeld’s more stirring speeches is later seen on a hotel television." after Tom Hanks. Devoid of vanity with no hidden agendas he never strains to be likable. Good will integrity and a native common sense ooze out of him." Shelan O’Keefe (Heidi Phillips) Gracie Bednarczyk (Dawn Phillips) Alessandro Nivola (John Phillips) and Katie Honaker (Grace Phillips)." Jean-Louis Bompoint; edited by Joe Klotz; music by Clint Eastwood; production designer Susan Block; produced by John Cusack Grace Loh Galt Niederhoffer Daniela Taplin Lundberg and Celine Rattray; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes." Grace (Dana Lynne Gilhooley) whose presence haunts the movie is a soldier in Iraq. Except for snapshots and a brief flashback she is only a chipper voice heard on a telephone answering machine. Early in the movie we learn that Stanley had joined the Army. He was so gung-ho to fight in Iraq that he cheated on his eye exam by having a friend memorize the letters but was quickly found out and discharged. A scene in which he gathers his store’s clerks in a huddle that ends in a motivational group cheer suggests that he might have made an excellent officer." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07autu.html
the filmmaker Raymond De Felitta seeks out the man whom the singer Billy Vera describes as “Chet Baker times 10.” Attempting a comeback at 79 despite a serious illness (he died during filming in 2004) Mr. Paris reveals a career dogged by inadequate management insufficient luck and his own intractable ego. Tightly edited interviews with a host of jazz legends and industry insiders as well as Mr. Paris’s family and ex-wives provide further insight but the film’s most powerful voice is the singer’s own." his honeyed vocals — “like the first time you hear Streisand ” swoons the novelist Norman Bogner — make an argument for the tragedy of fame denied that no fan could best." Jeremy Saulnier David Zellerford Chad Davidson Eli Heitin and Ruben O’Malley; edited by John Wayland; produced by Mr. Zellerford; released by Outsider Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated." part musical mystery “ ’Tis Autumn: The Search for Jackie Paris” shines an overdue spotlight on a great who got away." released five albums and was named best new male vocalist of 1953 in the Down Beat Critics Poll. Admired by his peers he toured with Charlie Parker and Dizzy Gillespie. All too soon however his career appeared to be over and many believed he had died. What happened?" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07walk.html
Carter Page III the scion of a Virginia political dynasty that reached a pinnacle of respectability during the Watergate hearings Woody Harrelson executes a spectacular pirouette away from his usual hot-wired renegades. Playing a bewigged forked-tongue charmer drooling gossip inside this viper’s nest he drops nuggets like his signature line “I’m not naïve I’m superficial ” in the languid insinuating tone of a Southern courtier. Carter who dabbles in real estate and decorating and favors too-tight double-breasted suits relishes his role of “walker ” a platonic escort to the wives of boorish Washington power players who can’t be bothered to attend cultural and social functions." Kristin Scott Thomas (Lynn Lockner) Lauren Bacall (Natalie Van Miter) Ned Beatty (Jack Delorean) Moritz Bleibtreu (Emek Yoglu) Mary Beth Hurt (Chrissie Morgan) Lily Tomlin (Abigail Delorean) Steven Hartley (Robbie Kononsberg) William Hope (Mungo Tenant) Geff Francis (Detective Dixon) and Willem Dafoe (Larry Lockner)." who begins investigating the murder and his German-Turkish lover Emek Yoglu (Moritz Bleibtreu) generate no emotional heat. A tabloid paparazzo who wants Carter to use his connections to help him break into art photography Emek sleuths on his computer and unearths enough information to get himself followed to a gay bar and beaten up as a warning. The ominous gay-bar ambience feels about 30 years out of date as do the  songs featuring the shivery voice of Bryan Ferry." Chris Seager; edited by Julian Rodd; music by Anne Dudley; production designer James Merifield; produced by Deepak Nayar; released by ThinkFilm. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes." and already the film’s machinery has begun to creak. Carter is hounded by an ambitious district attorney (William Hope) and by a detective (Geff Francis) speaking tin-eared dialogue. A meeting between Carter and Lynn’s husband (an ill-used Willem Dafoe) is laughably sketchy." they are sacrificed to the wolves by their fancy fair-weather friends. Carter’s self-defining slogan should be reversed to read: “I’m not superficial. I’m naïve.”" that’s how Mr. Schrader likes his decadence; ripe and toxic it seeps through the gold-trimmed furniture and into the water supply. Without being overtly political or naming names “The Walker” portrays contemporary Washington as a cesspool of soullessness hypocrisy greed and antiquated social attitudes. Its brutal realpolitik is personified by Abigail’s husband Jack Delorean (Ned Beatty) a greasy-haired fat cat and behind-the-scenes manipulator who will do whatever it takes to do whatever is necessary." Natalie (Lauren Bacall) and Abigail (Lily Tomlin) constitute what may be the screen’s most formidable threesome of jaded dirt-dishing socialites since “The Women.”" ” “The Walker” unfortunately finds it necessary to attach a juicy social microcosm to a clunky mystery thriller whose antihero finds himself the chief suspect in a murder. Carter’s troubles begin when he chauffeurs Lynn his closest friend among the card players and the wife of a senator to the home of her lover (Steven Hartley) a financial wheeler-dealer." she cracks in her brandied baritone is the hardest job:  “You don’t get the money; you get to look at it.” Ms. Scott Thomas’s Lynn seethes with the chilled rage of a neglected wife. Ms. Tomlin’s gaunt hollow-eyed Abigail personifies the political spouse as ferocious watchdog." Lynn returns in great agitation having found her boyfriend’s dead body on the living room floor. Fearful of a scandal she refuses to report the crime and begs Carter to cover for her. He agrees and returns later to “discover” the body and contact the police." which began in 1980 with “American Gigolo” and continued 12 years later with “Light Sleeper.” Carter is the spiritual descendant of Julian Kaye the Hollywood stallion for hire played as a noble fool by Richard Gere in “Gigolo.” Both are innocents who fancy themselves sophisticates." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07stre.html
Vinnie Jones (Smasher O’Driscoll) Patrick Bergin (Papa Boss) and Richard Chamberlain (Denis O’Leary)." of course represents good while Smasher (the cartoonish Vinnie Jones) functions as evil; the two nemeses battle it out in a rather awkwardly staged final showdown. Guess who wins." Sean loses his wife to a rare heart disease only to learn that his son has inherited the same ailment. To pay for an operation he must again turn to boxing a pastime he has fiercely sworn off. This time he’s drawn into a leaner meaner bare-knuckled variety that follows only two rules: no hitting below the belt and no kicking. (Richard Chamberlain shows up briefly as his loyal coach.)" written produced and directed by Mark Mahon above excessive banality." produced and directed by Mark Mahon; director of photography Alan Almond; edited by Kate Coggins; music by Ilan Eshkeri; production designer Eleanor Wood; released by Slowhand Releasing and Maron Pictures. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." ever the designated heavy played someone as huggable as Sean Kelleher the Irish ex-boxer and tragic hero of “Strength and Honor.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07sasq.html
nothing can disguise the clumsiness of the writing. As the story lurches forward then backs up to reveal yet another character’s perspective only Gavin’s crush on the spunky Sophie (Addie Land) seems natural. There’s a reason “Harry and the Hendersons” never inspired a sequel." ” a sad attempt to board the loser-nerd comedy bandwagon. Boasting a writer and director Tim Skousen who was an assistant director on “Napoleon Dynamite ” the movie affirms its pedigree with a near-subliminal cameo by that film’s star Jon Heder. As if the stoned line delivery and moronic behavior weren’t enough to give the game away." Munn Powell; edited by Jeremy Coon and Mr. Skousen; music by John Swihart; production designer Cory Lorenzen; produced by Mr. Coon Adam Kassen Mark Kassen Randy Holleschau Kevin Spacey and Dana Brunetti; released by Screen Media Films. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes." Jeremy Sumpter (Gavin) Addie Land (Sophie) Joey Kern (Shirts) Rob Pinkston (Maynard) Hubbel Palmer (Hobie) Carl Weathers (Dr. Artemis Snodgrass) and Michael Mitchell (Shane)." a fantasy enthusiast who role-plays medieval battles and avidly follows the exploits of a self-appointed Sasquatch specialist (Carl Weathers). When Gavin and his socially challenged friends Hobie (Hubbel Palmer) and Maynard (Rob Pinkston) discover what they believe to be Bigfoot scat in a nearby wood they kick-start a narrative more lumbering than its hairy inspiration." crude weapons crude special effects and a heroine who has her jaw wired shut." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07revo.html
but Mr. Ritchie deserves credit for chutzpah. After his third film “Swept Away” — a putrid remake of the Lina Wertmüller classic starring his wife Madonna — he could have photocopied his two hits “Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels” and “Snatch ” and been credited with a return to form." impassioned incoherent and silly “Revolver ” the fourth film by the writer and director Guy Ritchie is a macho parable of a fallen man striving for grace." deception war and chess and it ends with jejune sound bites from guru figures (including Deepak Chopra). The characters fear an unseen Mr. Gold who variously represents greed pride the ego and Satan. The movie’s title teases both the purgatorial cycle of self-limiting thought and the possibility of spiritual evolution (represented by images of cats crucifixion and sarcophagi). When a major character renounces violence Mr. Ritchie frames him so that gold leaves on the wall behind his head form a halo." Jason Statham stars as Jake Green an ex-convict seeking revenge against a malevolent casino owner named Dorothy Macha (Ray Liotta). Green hopes to bankrupt Macha by means of “the formula ” an equation he devised in the joint." “Who is this director and what has he done with Guy Ritchie?”" Ray Liotta (Dorothy Macha) Vincent Pastore (Zack) André Benjamin (Avi) and Mark Strong (Sorter)." ” “mystery ” “religion” and “self-help”: the first metaphysical lad-mag movie." Tim Maurice Jones; edited by James Herbert Ian Differ and Romesh Aluwihare; music by Nathaniel Mechaly; production designer Eve Stewart; produced by Luc Besson and Virginie Silla; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films and Destination Films. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes." a stoic gunman with superhuman hearing Mark Strong steals every scene he’s in. As Macha a decadent insecure sadist Mr. Liotta conveys spiritual anguish while clad in bikini briefs and eyeliner a feat that Ingmar Bergman never asked of Max von Sydow." Macha orders him whacked but is foiled by a mysterious loan shark named Zack (Vincent Pastore of “The Sopranos”). Soon after Zack and his dapper partner Avi (André Benjamin) inform Green that he has a fast-acting fatal disease and hint that there’s a world beyond the one he can see." the filmmaker gives Green and Macha narration that anticipates and critiques events and sets the action in a neo-noir dreamland rife with allusive proper nouns. (The macho Macha is a mini- Machiavelli.  Say that five times fast.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07dirt.html
Rockmond Dunbar (Patrick/Sheldon) Aaron Grady Shaw (Gabriel) Jenifer Lewis (Aunt Lettuce) Terri J. Vaughn (Jackie) Alec Mapa (Daniel) Joey Costello (Ryan) and Maurice Jamal (Eugene)." ” the second feature by the writer and director Maurice Jamal is a back-to-your-roots film about a gay African-American named Sheldon (Rockmond Dunbar) who meets a young son (Aaron Grady Shaw) he didn’t know he had and revisits his extended family in an intolerant Southern town he once fled in the name of self-respect." however is Loretta Devine as Sheldon’s mother Evelyn a fussbudget chain smoker and world-class chef who proves that a mom’s love conquers all." Patrick — is a borderline insufferable urban sophisticate. His lover Ryan (Joey Costello) seems a stereotypical worshipful boy toy but soon reveals deep reserves of empathy and political savvy. Sheldon’s brother Eugene (played by the director) pronounces the adjective “fancy” as if it were a slur but he’s a hard worker devoted husband and essentially decent man. Sheldon’s Aunt Lettuce (Jenifer Lewis) is a drama queen who treats every church appearance as a combination fashion show and “American Idol” tryout." Rory King and Liz Rubin; edited by Gene Graham; production designer Norval Johnson; produced by Rockmond Dunbar Re’Shaun Frear and Andre Robert Lee; released by Code Black/20th Century Fox. In Manhattan at the Chelsea Cinemas 260 West 23rd Street. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." and the film’s overwhelming desire to be loved blunts any edge it might have had. Fortunately even as Mr. Jamal’s characters hit notes reminiscent of a half-baked television pilot they disclose eccentricities that his cast spins into comic gold." some sexual content and thematic elements." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07comp.html
which otherwise hews as close to the original source as can be expected from a 114-minute big-screen translation of a 400-or-so-page novel. Directed by the American Chris Weitz who wrote the heavily condensed script “The Golden Compass” has many of the virtues of a faithful screen adaptation and many of the predictable flaws. Agnostics and atheists may for starters regret the explicit absence of the Church (others may see lingering traces) but the movies have never been a particularly good pulpit for any gods other than those of cinema’s own creation. It’s a tradition that this film honors with a goddess of icy perfection played by the wickedly well-cast Nicole Kidman." ” prowling and flapping and slithering and fluttering. The animals most of which are called daemons and are manifestations of the human soul hover at the side of their people and near the story’s edge where their coos and barks mix with the ambient clatter and clang. Every so often an animal leaps forward its fur raised in alarm its feathers fanned in flight. And because these are no ordinary animals they also offer words of comfort advice warning. In this otherworldly realm humans have no dominion over these creatures yet they are not merely equals either. They are one." as far as I can tell the most irreligious conceits in the movie adaptation of “The Golden Compass ” a novel that was first published in Britain as  “Northern Lights.”  Written by Philip Pullman it quickly became a critical and commercial success for the most obvious of reasons: It’s a charming romp set in a parallel universe stuffed with magical creatures spooky villains and mythopoetic conceits and propelled by a young  orphan Lyra Belacqua who embarks on the hero’s journey with her shape-shifting daemon Pantalaimon (Pan for short). The book has attracted voluble criticism for equally obvious reasons: Its army of darkness is a totalitarian institution called “the Church.”" if only because they might persuade Mr. Weitz and his team to take it slower next time. “The Golden Compass” is an honorable work and especially impressive given the far smaller more intimate scale of his last film as a director (with his brother Paul) “About a Boy.”  But it’s hampered by its fealty to the book and its madly rushed pace which forces you to dash through the story like Lord Asriel." I would have liked to spend some quality time with Lyra’s friend and protector the warrior bear Iorek Byrnison (voiced by Mr. McKellen) a gorgeous creature whose ferocity is alas tempered by his resemblance to some familiar cuddly polar bears. It is I discovered hard to keep your mind off the concession stand when you are waiting for Iorek to offer Lyra a Coke." Dakota Blue Richards (Lyra Belacqua) Sam Elliott (Lee Scoresby) Eva Green (Serafina Pekkala) Daniel Craig (Lord Asriel) Christopher Lee (First High Councilor) Tom Courtenay (Farder Coram) Derek Jacobi (Magisterial Emissary) Ben Walker (Roger) Simon McBurney (Fra Pavel) Jim Carter (Lord John Faa) Clare Higgins (Ma Costa) Jack Shepherd (Master of Jordan College) and Magda Szubanski (Mrs. Lonsdale)." an emissary of the reigning powers (known only as “the Magisterium” in the film) Ms. Kidman has rarely looked more beautifully and exotically alien. When she first appears she pours across the screen like liquid gold her body provocatively shifting inside a shimmering form-fitting gown her gilt-blond hair and alabaster skin all but glowing. She’s the film’s most spectacular special effect (her wonderfully vicious little daemon-monkey runs a close second) and for once the smooth planes of her face untroubled by visible lines serve the character. This masklike countenance  helps hide Mrs. Coulter’s malignant designs from Lyra (the newcomer Dakota Blue Richards spunky and serviceable) who not long after the story lifts off falls into her care through a series of complicated developments." based on the first novel of the “His Dark Materials” trilogy by Philip Pullman; director of photography Henry Braham; edited by Peter Honess Anne V. Coates and Kevin Tent; music by Alexandre Desplat; visual-effects supervisor Michael Fink; production designer Dennis Gassner; produced by Deborah A. Forte and Bill Carraro; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 1 hour 54 minutes." some of it visibly influenced by David Lynch’s “Dune ” the story unwinds in fairly straightforward fashion. Lyra using a nifty compasslike device called an alethiometer must face danger and destiny along with some hard truths. Among the hardest and headiest are those involving her uncle Lord Asriel (Daniel Craig) an adventurer who dashes in and out of her life accompanied by an elegant snow leopard for a daemon. Aided and abetted by assorted quirky types and acting legends (Tom Courtenay in person Ian McKellen in voice) Lyra follows Lord Asriel to the snowy north where further perils await along with a creepy intrigue involving stolen children and hints that the book’s two sequels are ready for their big-screen close-ups." characters (computer-generated and otherwise) twists and turns sumptuously appointed rooms and ethereally strange vistas into his film that he risks losing you in the whirl. It zips from the Gothic grandeur of Jordan College the Oxford institution where Lyra has been raised and somewhat educated by her guardians (“Scholars”) to Mrs. Coulter’s swank London home where the Art Deco touches bring to mind the dreamiest Astaire-and-Rogers cheek-to-cheek. Much like the neo-Victorian aristocrats in Neal Stephenson’s science-fiction novel “The Diamond Age ” the characters in “The Golden Compass” populate a world that resembles our own despite being also seductively foreign. In Lyra’s universe zeppelins putt-putt through a period twilight zone evoking both a knowable past and a possible future." Ian McShane (Ragnar Sturlusson) Freddie Highmore (Pantalaimon) Kathy Bates (Hester) and Kristin Scott Thomas (Stelmaria)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07chai.html
Dana Gonzales; edited by Terry Cafaro; music by Laura Karpman; production designer Carol Strober; produced by Mr. Schroeder Randy Turrow and Sarah Schroeder; released by Outsider Pictures and Elbow Grease Pictures. At the AMC Empire 25 234 West 42nd Street Manhattan. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." he dwells in a cocoon of old movie lore. Sensing a kindred spirit in the loudmouth crank Cameron considers Flash  as a possible subject for his project and trails him to the grounds of the Motion Picture Home where Flash lives with other retired movie business employees. Flash may have physical comfort but he spends his days wandering around Los Angeles perching on park benches and overpasses and swigging out of a pint of bourbon." Flash introduces Cameron to Mickey (M. Emmet Walsh) an  Oscar-winning former screenwriter who now lives miserably in a nursing home. The movie mentions that Flash’s union affiliation enables him to live in comfort whereas Mickey for whatever unspecified reason has no such cushion." but the comparison is so heavy-handed it feels like pandering. And the raid itself is a perfunctory bit of business." wonderfully played by Mr. Walsh how to research the topic on Google. Mickey hauls a battered old typewriter out of the closet  and as he begins to peck at the keys re-engages with life.  To get the $5 000 to finance the film Flash visits a wealthy film producer  (Robert Wagner) who stole his wife years earlier and shames him into lending the money." written and directed by Michael Schroeder wants to confront hard truths about old age in what one character disgustedly labels a throwaway society. But it also insists on applying a thick sugar coating to this very bitter pill. Mr. Plummer’s Flash who swings between extremes of fury and weepiness keeps  “Man in the Chair” reasonably honest despite itself though the film is so concerned that Flash’s anger will be unpalatable to audiences that it throws in a mawkish unconvincing subplot about animal protection to persuade us that in his heart of hearts  he’s a softie." “Touch of Evil.” “You never could act in pants Chuckles ” he shouts at a mustachioed Charlton Heston playing a Mexican policeman. Observing this skid-row-worthy heckler is Cameron Kincaid (Michael Angarano) a nervous 17-year-old student who is preparing to make a short movie for a high school competition." an actor typecast nowadays as a suave smiling cobra slithering through the corridors of power sheds his scales to play a tippling old curmudgeon raging against the dying of the light. His fierce portrayal of Flash Madden a long-retired Hollywood studio gaffer is the knot that ties together this sentimental intergenerational drama." it settles into a soothing fable of a last hurrah." Michael Angarano (Cameron Kincaid) M. Emmet Walsh (Mickey Hopkins) Robert Wagner (Taylor Moss) Tracey Walter (Mr. Klein) Mitch Pileggi (Floyd) and Joshua Boyd (Murphy White)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/07/movies/07aton.html
Keira Knightley (Cecilia Tallis) Romola Garai (Briony Tallis at 18) Saoirse  Ronan (Briony at 13) Vanessa Redgrave (Older Briony) and Brenda Blethyn (Grace Turner)." who also starred in “Pride and Prejudice ” plays Cecilia Tallis a rich girl who discovers she is loved by and in love with Robbie (James McAvoy) the son of one of her family’s servants. Their furtive ardent courtship is observed by Cecilia’s younger sister Briony (played at 13 by the remarkably poised Saoirse Ronan  —  pronounced SEER-Sha) whose combination of precocity and confusion precipitates a household catastrophe." the other a yearning rural swain — but the sound of the machine is co-opted by Dario Marianelli who wrote the movie’s score and who conjoins the clack-clacking of mechanical composition with the steady plink of a repeated piano note. At a climactic moment  Brenda Blethyn who can be as subtle an actress as Mr. Marianelli is a composer leaps screaming from the darkness and begins beating on the hood of a car with an umbrella a tocsin that joins the plink and the clack in a small symphony of literal-minded irrelevance." of bloody wounds and shattered limbs in London — but the film’s treatment of the war has a detached secondhand feeling. And even the most impressive sequences have an empty arty virtuosity. The impression left by a long complicated battlefield tracking shot is pretty much “Wow that’s quite a tracking shot ” when it should be “My God what a horrible experience that must have been.”" romantic film version of Jane Austen’s “Pride and Prejudice ” “Atonement” fails to be anything more than a decorous heavily decorated and ultimately superficial reading of the book on which it is based. Mr. McEwan’s prose pulls you in immediately and drags you through an intricate unsettling story releasing you in a shaken wrung-out state. The film after a tantalizing start sputters to a halt in a welter of grandiose imagery and hurtling montage." thematically pregnant interwar period. The setting is a rambling old British country estate  where  trim dinner jackets and shimmering silk dresses are worn; cigarettes are smoked with sharp inhalations that create perfect concavities of cheekbone; and the air is thick with class tension and sexual anxiety. Heavy clouds are gathering on the geopolitical horizon which lends a special poignancy to the domestic comings and goings. This charged hardly unfamiliar atmosphere provides in the first section of the film some decent suspenseful fun a rush of incident and implication.  Boxy cars rolling up the drive; whispers of scandal and family secrets; coitus interruptus in the library all set to the implacable rhythm of typewriter keys." murky middle and end sections is the big moral theme  — and also the ingenious formal gimmick —   that provides the book with some of its intensity and much of its cachet. As the title suggests “Atonement” is fundamentally about guilt and the attempt to overcome it and about the tricky tragically imperfect power of art to compensate for real-life crimes and misdemeanors." and it is here in the transition from hothouse psychodrama to historical pseudo-epic that “Atonement” runs aground losing dramatic coherence and intellectual focus. Romola Garai has taken over the role of Briony (in a coda she will age gracefully into Vanessa Redgrave) who  works as a nurse in London. Cecilia now estranged from the family does similar duty and Robbie stumbles toward the beach at Dunkirk." based on the novel by Ian McEwan; director of photography Seamus McGarvey; edited by Paul Tothill; music by Dario Marianelli; production designer Sarah Greenwood; produced by Tim Bevan Eric Fellner and Paul Webster; released by Focus Features. Running time: 2 hours 3 minutes." ”  piously rendered by the screenwriter Christopher Hampton from Ian McEwan’s novel. This is not a bad literary adaptation; it is too handsomely shot and Britishly acted to warrant such strong condemnation. “Atonement” is instead an almost classical example of how pointless how diminishing the transmutation of literature into film can be. The respect that Mr. Wright and Mr. Hampton show to Mr. McEwan is no doubt gratifying to him but it is fatal to their own project." I will say that the power of the story depends on its believability on the audience’s ability to perceive Robbie and Cecilia in wartime as suffering flesh-and-blood creatures. Mr. McAvoy and Ms. Knightley sigh and swoon credibly enough but they are stymied by the inertia of the filmmaking and by the film’s failure to find a strong connection between the fates of the characters and the ideas and historical events that swirl around them." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/05/movies/05kid.html
after persuading a shy waitress to be his girlfriend is loudly applauded by a clique of town hangabouts he is pleasantly surprised." Donald Cumming; edited by Michael Levine; music by Christian Zucconi and Guy Blakeslee; produced by Ms. Venditti and Chiemi Karasawa; released by Elephant Eye Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes. This film is not rated." “Billy the Kid” is a deceptively simple portrait of a shockingly self-aware and articulate young man. Quoting Robert Frost as easily as “The Terminator ” Billy discusses his troubled past (“I don’t know where to start”) and his deep-rooted desire to protect women. This is evident in the tender patient interactions between the boy and his mother Penny which provide the film with a much-needed core of stability and an antidote to Billy’s free-form observations." ” announces Billy an opinionated 10th grader and the willing subject of Jennifer Venditti’s sly documentary “Billy the Kid.” Delivered almost apologetically the comment is without arrogance. But as one candid confession follows another the camera’s role in their solicitation becomes difficult to overlook." Ms. Venditti follows Billy as he navigates his close-knit community Lisbon Falls Me. A seemingly normal teenager who likes girls (“but I’m not a jerk about it”) and loves heavy metal Billy also struggles with a volatile temper and the disconcerting tendency to say exactly what he means. Both traits have isolated him from his peers inflamed the local bullies and driven him more deeply into a mind that may or may not conceal more serious psychological problems." ” he tells them and the men collapse with laughter. Whether a blurted confession or a line to the gallery we’ll never know." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/05/movies/05juno.html
I’d like to procure a hasty abortion ” she says when she calls  a women’s health clinic — but as “Juno” follows her from pregnancy test to delivery room (and hastily retreats from the prospect of abortion) it takes on surprising delicacy and emotional depth. The snappy one-liners are a brilliant distraction Ms. Cody’s way of clearing your throat for the lump you’re likely to find there in the movie’s last scenes." though not many  are so daring in their treatment of teenage pregnancy which this film flirts with presenting not just as bearable but attractive. Kids please! Heed the cautionary whale.  But in the meantime have a good time at “Juno.” Bring your parents too." the title character of Jason Reitman’s new film is 16 and pregnant but “Juno” could not be further from the kind of hand-wringing moralizing melodrama that such a condition might suggest. Juno played by the poised frighteningly talented Ellen Page is too odd and too smart to be either a case study or the object of leering disapproval. She assesses her problem and weighs her response to it with disconcerting sang-froid." ” I was shocked to find myself tearing up at the end since I’d spent the first 15 minutes or so gnashing my teeth and checking my watch. The passive-aggressive pseudo-folk songs the self-consciously clever dialogue the generic instantly mockable suburban setting — if you can find Sundance on a map you’ll swear you’ve been here before." somewhat remarkably rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has sexual situations obviously but no nudity or violence and not much swearing." unprotected sex with her friend Paulie Bleeker (Michael Cera) or that she decides against the advice of parents and friends to have the baby and give it up for adoption. These indeed are choices she is prepared to defend and to live with. Rather Juno’s immaturity resides in her familiar adolescent assumption that she understands the world better than her elders do and that she can finesse the unintended consequences of her decisions." not the one in Park City Utah) respects the idiosyncrasies of its characters rather than exaggerating them or holding them up for ridicule. And like Juno herself the film outgrows its own mannerisms and defenses evolving from a coy knowing farce into a heartfelt serious comedy." but rather that in the sardonic spirit of the screenwriter Diablo Cody she can’t help finding humor in it. Tiny of frame and huge of belly Juno utters wisecracks as if they were breathing exercises referring to herself as “the cautionary whale.”" at first seem like familiar caricatures of adolescent-centered cinema: square sad and clueless. But Juno’s father (J. K. Simmons) and step-mother (Allison Janney) turn out to be complicated intelligent people too and not just because they are played by two of the best character actors around. Ms. Cody’s script and Mr. Reitman’s understated observant direction allow the personalities of the characters to emerge slowly and to change in credible and unpredictable ways." on the surface at least a familiar type surrounding herself with and expressing herself by means of kitschy consumer detritus (she calls the clinic on a hamburger phone) and pop cultural ephemera. She could be the hero of a Judd Apatow comedy (like say Mr. Cera the boneless wonder of “Superbad” and a purely delightful presence here). Except of course that she’s female. Ms. Cody Mr. Reitman and Ms. Page have conspired intentionally or not to produce a feminist girl-powered rejoinder and complement to “Knocked Up.” Despite what most products of the Hollywood comedy boys’ club would have you believe it is possible to possess both a uterus and a sense of humor." the baby’s potential adoptive parents. The audience’s initial impression of them like Juno’s is of stereotypically smug yuppies trapped in rickety conventions of heterosexual domesticity. Vanessa is uptight and materialistic while Mark tends the guttering flame of his youthful hipness watching cult horror movies and trading alternative-rock mix CDs with Juno." Michael Cera (Paulie Bleeker) Jennifer Garner (Vanessa Loring) Jason Bateman (Mark Loring) Allison Janney (Bren MacGuff) J. K. Simmons (Mac MacGuff) and Olivia Thirlby (Leah)." a 20-year-old Canadian who is able to seem in the space of a single scene mature beyond her years and disarmingly childlike. The naïveté that peeks through her flippant wised-up facade is essential since part of the movie’s point is that Juno is not quite as smart or as capable as she thinks she is." a message that is not anti-abortion but rather pro-adulthood. It follows its heroine — and by the end she has earned that title — on a twisty path toward responsibility and greater self-understanding." Eric Steelberg; edited by Dana E. Glauberman; music by Mateo Messina; production designer Steve Saklad; produced by Lianne Halfon John Malkovich Mason Novick and Russell Smith; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 31 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/05/movies/05viol.html
tough sneakily moving film “The Violin” wears its revolutionary romanticism on its sleeve not far from its gun. Set amid the mountains of the southern Pacific Coast state of Guerrero Mexico home of both touristic pleasures and peasant revolt it blends fablelike simplicity with documentary touches to tell the story of a near-primordial struggle between the haves and the have-nots. For the three generations of one indigenous family who travel to small dusty towns playing their music for coins the struggle is written on their unsmiling faces and in their plaintive haunting songs." it starts badly in a claustrophobic darkly lighted space (during an unidentified time) with a soldier having his sadistic way with another man who whimpers in a chair his hands tied behind him. The director Francisco Vargas thrusts us right in the middle of this awful scene with the camera close to the ground and behind the victim. We can’t see the tortured man’s face but we watch him squirm and hear his moans along with those of several other restrained men and women. It’s a wretched opener in part because Mr. Vargas who makes his feature debut with this film doesn’t understand that he needs to put his camera and not just his sympathies on the side of the victims." Dagoberto Gama (the Captain) Fermín Martínez (the Lieutenant) Gerardo Taracena (Genaro) and Mario Garibaldi (Lucio)." with English subtitles) directed and produced by Francisco Vargas; director of photography Martín Boege Paré; edited by Mr. Vargas and Ricardo Garfias; music by Cuauhtémoc Tavira and Armando Rosas; released by Film Movement. At  Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated." but Plutarco keeps it going through a series of delicately played and directed interludes involving the grandson a landowner a donkey and finally and startlingly an army officer with an apparent sentimental streak. Creased by the sun and bowed by the years Mr. Tavira an acting novice who was awarded a prize for this performance at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival presents an unassailable moral figure. Mr. Vargas perhaps leans too heavily on the character’s earthiness but in Plutarco you see centuries of oppression and resistance as well as how some faces form a continuum with the land. This isn’t essentialism; rather it’s a visible reminder of the struggle that dates back to the conquistadors and the Aztecs of the history and the fight that endure." as the focus shifts to what looks like the present and Don Plutarco (Don Ángel Tavira) a resourceful septuagenarian and violinist who when not farming a patch of land plays music with his son Genaro (Gerardo Taracena) and grandson Lucio (Mario Garibaldi). The film follows the family to a dusty town where no one seems to be in the mood to pay for the music. Although Mr. Vargas’s direction sometimes telegraphs information too readily waving rather than pointing these scenes unfold with naturalistic restraint. The family exchanges few words as it  beds down in the street for the night eating the tacos that Genaro buys from a vendor. Seated on some steps Lucio tenderly feeds morsels to a stray dog." but it also has a strategic function because it makes what happens next all the more unsettling. The family’s visit to the town turns out to be more complicated than first appears. While his father and son sleep Genaro visits a honky-tonk and after some comically indiscreet hand signals and eye glares is soon examining a stash of guns in a back room under looming shadows. Somehow the authorities enter a flurry of noise and action ensues and Genaro starts running. He doesn’t really stop until very late in the film by which time this gentle guitar player (and the director) has struck a heroic revolutionary pose." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/05/movies/05undo.html
” by the writer and director Chris Chan Lee buries a potentially haunting pulp thriller beneath flashy tics." who returns to Los Angeles one year after his best friend Joon (Leonardo Nam) got Sam involved in a criminal scheme with a drug-dealing policewoman (Mary Mara) and paid with his life." an arsenal of unnecessary editing devices — including jump cuts montages of still frames and gratuitously sped and slowed motion — plays like unnecessary insurance against audience boredom and betrays a lack of faith in a movie that’s tough and heartfelt enough to get along fine without them." John DeFazio; edited by Greg Louie and Howard Leder; music by Ceiri Torjussen; production designer Lissette Schettini; produced by Karin Chien Sung Kang George Huey Eric Yu-jin Kim and Catherine Park; released by Group Hug Productions. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." Kelly Hu (Vera) Russell Wong (Leon) José Zuniga (Randall) Leonardo Nam (Joon) Mary Mara (Kasawa) and Tom Bower (Don Osa)." respect and a roll in the hay with his gorgeous soulful ex-girlfriend the waitress Vera (Kelly Hu). The hero is guided on his quest (and sometimes righteously slapped) by his surrogate father the retired gangster Don Osa (the superb character actor Tom Bower in a diamond-hard yet intensely introspective performance)." John DeFazio’s widescreen high-definition video images and Sam’s amusing mix of hard-boiled swagger and amateurish overcompensation. (After coolly threatening the policewoman with an incriminating video Sam makes sure to tell her that it’s a copy not an original.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/01/movies/01nach.html
but that’s where Madhuri Dixit India’s biggest female star of the 1990s has been leading a Clark Kent-type life married and raising children. Ms. Dixit has been gone from the screen for five years long enough for a new crop of stars to emerge and for “Aaja Nachle ” her modest new film to be a comeback vehicle." 40 really to come back however Hindi cinema will have to figure out what kind of heroine a middle-aged woman can be. “Aaja ” directed by Anil Mehta tries but doesn’t quite know what to do with Ms. Dixit a wonderful dancer who plays Dia a choreographer living in New York. She returns to her hometown in India and tries to save a theater that developers want to replace with a mall by putting on a show." the film denies Dia who is divorced with a daughter a love life. All her passion goes into the show she’s staging and into playing cheerleader to a budding romance between its leads." and this is Bollywood so dance she does. In doing so Ms. Dixit reminds us that whatever “it” is she’s still got it. Now stories will have to be found that can show it off." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/01/movies/01awak.html
Joby Harold claims to have been inspired to write the film while suffering from a particularly painful kidney stone. Watching it may be for some a comparable experience." Clayton’s heart is already overburdened. Nursing an overbearing mother (Lena Olin) suppressed memories of his father’s death and a clandestine relationship with the sultry Samantha (Jessica Alba) he is relieved when a donor organ becomes available. The last-minute appearance of a substitute anesthesiologist however is not quite so encouraging." ” Hayden Christensen plays Clayton Beresford Jr. a wealthy young man who suffers a condition called anesthesia awareness during a heart transplant. Conscious but immobile he gives us a voice-over play-by-play of the proceedings and if you are one of those who viewed his portrayal of Anakin Skywalker as the ne plus ultra of lifelessness prepare to be proven wrong." “Awake” is filled with risible medical behavior (the sterility of the operating room is repeatedly compromised) and a horizontal Mr. Christensen screaming variations on “Oh no I can feel that!” Made bearable solely by the impeccable Terrence Howard as Clay’s troubled surgeon the movie is ultimately likely to alarm only those responsible for paying medical malpractice premiums." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/30/movies/30divi.html
a French fashion magazine editor and the author of the international best seller on which “The Diving Bell and the Butterfly” is based suffered an even more extreme form of confinement. In his early 40s he suffered a stroke that left him in a rare affliction called “locked-in syndrome.” He retained vision and hearing and his mind continued to function perfectly but his body was almost completely paralyzed. He could not move or speak. In the film a friend visiting him in the hospital in Berck a wind-swept seaside town in northern France reports the latest gossip from the cafes of Paris: “Have you heard? Jean-Dominique is a vegetable.”" with English subtitles) by Ronald Harwood based on the book “Le Scaphandre et le Papillon” by Jean-Dominique Bauby; director of photography Janusz Kaminski; edited by Juliette Welfling; music by Paul Cantelon; produced by Kathleen Kennedy and Jon Kilik; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes." however is freedom the self-willed liberation of a difficult defiant individual.  But Mr. Schnabel is not content simply to state or to dramatize this idea. Rather he demonstrates his own imaginative freedom in every frame and sequence dispensing with narrative and expository conventions in favor of a wild intuitive honesty." with the help of a speech therapist (the marvelously sensitive Marie-Josée Croze) who patiently teaches Jean-Dominique to turn his left eyelid into a means of communication. She sits beside him reciting the alphabet and stopping when he blinks piecing together words and sentences from his signals." a French actor whose twitching antic physicality makes the character’s immobility all the more painful. But “The Diving Bell ” true to its hero and its literary source is neither morbid nor mawkish. Propped up in a wheelchair able to communicate only by blinking his left eye (the other in one especially nightmarish scene has been sewn shut to prevent infection) he remains a sensualist a bon vivant and a keen literary wit." ” “Before Night Falls” and now “The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.” All are biographical examining  the lives of real people and in each case the protagonist struggles with a condition of literal or metaphorical imprisonment. Jean-Michel Basquiat Mr. Schnabel’s younger colleague in the New York art scene of the 1980s is trapped by addiction and by his outsider status. Reinaldo Arenas the gay Cuban poet whose memoir was the basis of “Before Night Falls ” is censored harassed and locked up by successive dictatorships." Emmanuelle Seigner (Céline) Marie-Josée Croze (Henriette) Anne Consigny (Claude) Patrick Chesnais (Dr. Lepage) Niels Arestrup (Roussin) Olatz Lopez Garmendia (Marie Lopez) Jean-Pierre Cassel (Father Lucian/Lourdes vendor) Marina Hands (Josephine) Issach de Bankole (Laurent) Max von Sydow (Papinou) and Anna Chyzh (model)." so does Mr. Schnabel’s. Condemned to live in an eternal present Jean-Dominique is also freed from the tyranny of time and so the film ranges freely into fantasy speculation and remembrance given shape not by a plot but by the ecstatic logic of images and associations. Working with the brilliant cinematographer Janusz Kaminski he uses light and color to convey the world of sensations from which Jean-Dominique is exiled but which he appreciated all the more acutely for that reason." pleasure and self-indulgence for which he never apologizes. He had recently left Céline (Emmanuelle Seigner) his longtime partner and the mother of his three children an abandonment that seemed to follow a series of betrayals. Céline appears nonetheless at the hospital in Berck fighting back tears and demonstrating a loyalty that comes close to masochism. In spite of his lapses she clearly loves Jean-Dominique and she is not alone.  Besides other women (Marina Hands most memorably) there are acquaintances colleagues (notably Isaach de Bankole) and Jean-Dominique’s father a rogue of the old school played with magnificent poignancy by Max von Sydow." and together she and Jean-Dominique compose the compact lyrical book that will become Mr. Schnabel’s expansive passionate film. Their attention also introduces both the patient and the audience to an intense nonsexual intimacy that is itself a form of love." ” along with a swarm of other empty uplifting clichés. But Mr. Schnabel and the screenwriter Ronald Harwood have other themes in mind. Limitation constraint incarceration —  these may be as I’ve suggested the shared premises of Mr. Schnabel’s films (and also of some of Mr. Harwood’s work notably his script for “The Pianist”)." curiously enough a movie about deprivation becomes a celebration of the richness of experience and a remarkably rich experience in its own right. In his memoir Mr. Bauby performed a heroic feat of alchemy turning horror into wisdom and Mr. Schnabel following his example and paying tribute to his accomplishment has turned pity into joy." the metaphor is cruel but not altogether unredeemable. As we come to understand in the course of this fierce and lovely film his existence is not that of a vegetable but rather of a garden a hothouse of consciousness memory and ecstatic imagination." as we see the blurry bustle of the hospital room from Jean-Dominique’s hazy panicked perspective. Faces loom suddenly and awkwardly into view while his captive consciousness writhes in its cage trying to make contact with the world outside." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/30/movies/30tony.html
Joey McIntyre (Tony) Krista Allen (Maddy) Adrian Grenier (Michael) Kim Director (Connie) Richard Portnow (Vinnie Black) Dean Edwards (Father Mark) Priscilla Lopez (Josie) Guillermo Diaz (Raphael) John Fiore (Mr. Nunzio) and Donnie Keshawarz (Donnie Dulce)." extravagant overacting and a decibel level to rival the unveiling of Oprah’s Favorite Things." produced and directed by Roger Paradiso; based on the Off Broadway play; director of photography Giselle Chamma; edited by Jennifer Davidoff Cook; production designer Patricia Woodbridge; produced by Michael Tadross and Tony Travis; released by Emerging Pictures. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes. This film is not rated." sequins and Paula Abdul — celebrate the merger of two equally dysfunctional Italian-American families. While the bride (Mila Kunis) wrangles a controlling mother (Priscilla Lopez) and a lovesick ex (Adrian Grenier) the groom (Joey McIntyre) endures a loudmouthed father (John Fiore) and pot-smoking groomsmen. Everyone suffers from dialogue that would make the average longshoreman demand a rewrite." “Tony N’ Tina’s Wedding” is a dated sendup of low-class comportment. Notable only for the astonishing longevity of its source material the film strains to wring humor from slutty bridesmaids and a black priest with Baptist vocal stylings. But as guests collapse headfirst into the ziti and urinate in the holy water Mr. Grenier — currently reveling in the success of his HBO series “Entourage” — may wish his near-naked tumble into the wedding cake had been left on the cutting-room floor." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/30/movies/30rock.html
and after a while the humorless solemnity of “The Rocket” stifles any interesting sense of Maurice Richard as a character. The hockey sequences are nicely done though and give a reasonably good sense of what a great player he was." Stephen McHattie (Dick Irvin) Julie Le Breton (Lucille Richard) Philip Craig (Tommy Gorman) Patrice Robitaille (Emile “Butch” Bouchard) and Michel Barrette (Mr. Norchet)." coach of the Montreal Canadiens says to Maurice Richard (Roy Dupuis) the team’s great star of the 1940s and ’50s. “The Rocket ” Charles Binamé’s 2005 film (which starts a brief theatrical run in Manhattan today) certainly gives him the kind of adoring biopic treatment sports heroes used to enjoy routinely. Mr. Binamé and the movie’s screenwriter Ken Scott present a Richard who has off the ice little in common with the boisterous Babe. He’s a faithful husband and a strong silent hunk of blue-collar stoicism as well as a fighter against discrimination and injustice —  a combination of Jackie Robinson and the Gary Cooper version of Lou Gehrig if you insist on a baseball analogy." Pierre Gill; edited by Michel Arcand; music by Michel Cusson; production designer Michel Proulx; produced by Denise Robert and Daniel Louis; released by Palm Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 2 hours 4 minutes." costumed production with lots of heavy music fedoras and trains hurtling through the wintry Quebec landscape. The film showcases Mr. Dupuis’s meaty good looks rather than his acting ability. And the story it tells while it touches on interesting themes of class consciousness and social inequality is pretty dull in the end. Richard marries his childhood sweetheart Lucille (Julie Le Breton) who sits in the stands looking worried as he scores goal after goal fights off goons and represents the proud fighting spirit of his people." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/30/movies/30prot.html
who blamed him for his mother’s death from kidney disease. He remembers the adrenaline rush he felt when at 16 he finally fought back and stabbed his father in the neck twisting the knife and nearly killing him. As a young man who robbed more than 30 banks he rejoiced in being the victimizer rather than the victim and savored the control he exerted over his own panic while committing his crimes. In his mind he was a Nietzschean Übermensch who lived above the rules of society." ” Jessica Yu’s enthralling documentary exploration of people with obsessive needs for control and self-mastery are all disillusioned (and extremely articulate) true believers. When they were younger they were certain they had found the Answer. One embraced terrorism another crime a third martial arts and the fourth missionary Christianity as ways of transcending painful oppressive childhoods that left them with feelings of inadequacy and shame." when he observes the Jews being separated from the other passengers on the hijacked plane and is disgusted by his colleagues’ anti-Semitism. Mr. Loya’s delusions of grandeur end after he is arrested and put in solitary confinement where he nearly loses his mind. When Mr. Salzman (who is Ms. Yu’s husband)  sees his kung fu teacher choke a fellow student into unconsciousness he begins questioning the role of gratuitous cruelty in courses promoted as bringing inner peace. Mr. Pierpont’s suppressed desires bubble up just when he thought he had squelched them.  In all four men the loss of certainty has far-reaching consequences." the four parallel narratives are interspersed with chapter headings like “Provocation ” “Turning Point ” “Fever” and “Catharsis.” Scenes from the stories are re-enacted by puppets with wooden masks manipulated by rods on a miniature replica of a classic Greek stage. (The visual design is elegant.) Quotations from Euripides spoken in ancient Greek connect these men with figures in Greek tragedy to suggest that nothing much has changed: now as then character is destiny." where he was the black sheep of the family and a crybaby. When he became  aware of his homosexuality he embraced the church attended missionary training school preached all over the world married and produced a son. He even wrote a tract “How I Came Out ” whose title inverted the notion of coming out of the closet to mean leaving  homosexuality behind. When his son was born he says “I felt satisfied complete whole.”" directed and edited by Jessica Yu; directors of photography Russell Harper and Karl Hahn; music by Jeff Beal; produced by Ms. Yu Elise Pearlstein and Susan West; released by IFC Films and Red Envelope Entertainment. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes." Ms. Yu writes in the production notes only five or six were female: “Men it appeared were far more likely to experience the particular breed of obsessive pursuit — and crashing revelation — that we were looking for.” No explanation is offered." who won the Oscar for best documentary short in 1997 for “Breathing Lessons: The Life and Work of Mark O’Brien ” states in the production notes for this film that her concept was to find people whose real lives mirrored the “tragedy of the extremist” in Euripides. A character embarks on a journey for valid reasons only to find himself so embedded in the cause that he becomes the opposite of what he intended and is blind to  that fact until “a single moment of dark clarity.”" Mark Salzman was the “school punching bag.”  His life changed he says when he discovered the actor David Carradine practicing kung fu on television and became so enamored of Mr. Carradine’s character Caine that he bought a bald wig to wear over his long hair. Enrolling in a punishing martial arts course he experienced male bonding for the first time with his “kung fu brothers ” one of whom was the school bully who had tormented him. Training himself to be impervious to physical discomfort he would walk to school barefoot in the snow." a brutal policeman and Nazi sympathizer Mr. Klein embraced left-wing activism and became a terrorist and self-described weapons fetishist who got “high on rage” and set fire to the American cultural center in Frankfurt at least 10 times. In the mid-1970s he participated in the violent kidnapping of OPEC ministers and in the Entebbe hijacking. “I felt I was the ruler of life and death ” he recalls." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/30/movies/30oswa.html
including the assassination theorists Mark Lane and Edward Jay Epstein the former CBS beat reporter Dan Rather and Norman Mailer — its existence raises a question: Why go here again?" produced and directed by Robert Stone; director of photography Howard Shack; edited by Don Kleszy and Mr. Stone; music by Gary Lionelli; released by Seventh Art Releasing. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated." paranoia conservative-liberal animosity executive-branch secrecy and war." the vilification of Lee Harvey Oswald the normalization of conspiracy theory and the collective aftershocks of a murder many Americans still consider unsolved." either but Mr. Stone does a diligent sometimes eerie job of articulating them. Along the way he showcases plenty of television news snippets of Oswald and his assassin Jack Ruby; Mr. Lane; the future senator Arlen Specter who coined the dismissive phrase “magic bullet”; and other pivotal players. And he collects autumnal interviews with witnesses to a period when it seemed to quote Mailer “as if God had removed his sanction from America.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/30/movies/30nina.html
the movie’s central romance barely qualifies as such. “It’s all about chemistry ” Nina says. Too bad she and her co-star possess so little." “Nina’s Heavenly Delights” is a lesbian-foodie fairy tale that keeps its appetites well under control. The title may hint at naughty pleasures but the director Pratibha Parmar is more interested in pappadams than passion." based on a story by Ms. Parmar; director of photography Simon Dennis; edited by Mary Finlay; music by Steve Isles; choreography by Piers Gielgud; production designer Andy Harris; produced by Ms. Parmar Chris Atkins and Marion Pilowsky; released by Regent Releasing and Here! Films. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes." sex and class — “Nina’s Heavenly Delights” groans beneath ethnic stereotypes and half-baked performances. Blander than a cumin-free curry Nina never convinces us that she can cook let alone entice the lovely Lisa (Laura Fraser) into her fearful arms." Nina Shah (Shelley Conn) finds her family concealing more secrets than the Ya-Ya Sisterhood. Most pressing however is the imminent sale of their award-winning Indian restaurant a direct consequence of Dad’s hidden gambling problem. If only Nina could win the Best of the West cooking competition the eatery would be saved and the entire cast free to confess their indiscretions before the final credits. Fetch the turmeric!" Laura Fraser (Lisa) Art Malik (Raj Khanna) Raji James (Sanjay) Kulvinder Ghir (TV Presenter) and Veena Sood (Suman Shah)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/30/movies/30chro.html
torture nudity and language." cowering mother of a man whose whereabouts they demand to know Israel Adrián Caetano’s film “Chronicle of an Escape” makes your stomach knot in anticipation that worse is to come. Minutes later as the object of their search a soccer player named Claudio M.  Tamburrini (Rodrigo de la Serna) makes his way home after a game he is blindfolded and dragged into a car. Taken to a sinister mansion in suburban Buenos Aires he is thrown into a room with other prisoners who have been rounded up for interrogation." a secret interrogation center that was later burned down to destroy evidence it turns its attention to the prisoners’ efforts to communicate with one another and to stay alive. Lest we forget that the mansion is a house of horrors however we are shown the aftereffects of torture: the gashes welts and patches of charred flesh on the prisoners’ emaciated naked bodies." empty room with several other prisoners. Blindfolded much of the time they are ordered never to look at their captors. At Christmastime they are treated to a swig of wine and a bite of cake by goons who declare themselves “men of honor.” As investigations proceed and prison sentences are handed out the captives’ numbers dwindle along with their hopes." the movie is a carefully paced persuasively acted thriller. Its first two-thirds observe Claudio’s four-month internment during which he becomes resigned to the idea that he will be killed. Unlike the other captives he does not belong to a subversive group; midway through the film he discovers to his fury that an acquaintance and fellow prisoner while under torture lied and named him as the owner of a mimeograph machine that printed antigovernment leaflets. The message is explicit: Torture may make people talk but they’ll say anything to avoid further abuse. The scene in which he confronts his accuser is one of the movie’s saddest." inspired by Mr. Tamburrini’s memoir of his 1977 kidnapping and detention by a paramilitary task force working for Argentina’s military dictatorship is relatively restrained in its depiction of torture. We watch prisoners being kicked verbally abused and repeatedly dunked underwater." Nazareno Casero (Guillermo) Lautaro Delgado (Gallego) Matías Marmorato (El Vasco) and Pablo Echarri (Huguito)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Caetano Esteban Student and Julián Loyola based on the book “Pase Libre: La Fuga de la Mansión Seré” by Claudio M. Tamburrini; director of photography Julián Apezteguia; edited by Alberto Ponce; music by Ivan Wyzsogrod; production designers Juan Mario Roust and Jorge Ferrari; produced by Oscar Kramer and Hugo Sigman; released by IFC First Take and the Weinstein Company. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 44 minutes." when the ruling military junta sought to eliminate anyone deemed hostile it lacks a stinging moral authority. Among films that remember that dark time it is eclipsed by “The Official Story ” “Night of the Pencils ” “Garage Olimpo” and “Imagining Argentina ” which are much more painful to watch." “Chronicle of an Escape” is deeply unsettling. Although the events it depicts happened 30 years ago in South America it inevitably triggers anguished thoughts of Abu Ghraib Guantánamo and extraordinary rendition." one of the four remaining captives hatches an escape plan. The movie reaches a peak of suspense as the four escape through a window naked in a thunderstorm. The sight of the terrorized half-starved men scuttling furtively in the middle of the night is far from reassuring. What are they to do now?" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/30/movies/30badl.html
Celina (Grace Fulton) to a new town where they move into a cheap motel room that he forbids Celina to leave. He then improbably lands a job as a short-order cook  for an angelic blond smokin’-hot coffee-shop owner named Oli (Chandra West)." unfortunately has nothing in common with Terrence Malick’s 1973 classic “Badlands” except the title a fugitive story line and a fascination with lonely landscapes elegantly framed by the cinematographer Carlo Varini." Jerry (the English actor Jamie Draven who played the older brother in “Billy Elliot”) is a guilt-wracked veteran of both Persian Gulf wars who suffers night terrors and nosebleeds. His boss at the general store baselessly fires him for stealing. His wife Nora (Vinessa Shaw) is a hateful thieving shrew who responds to his agonized weeping by telling him to  be a man. Talk about a quickie divorce: he blows her brains out at the breakfast table." Grace Fulton (Celina) Vinessa Shaw (Nora) Chandra West (Oli) and Joe Morton (Max)." ” a melodrama by the writer and director Francesco Lucente stands apart from the recent throng of post-9/11 dramas by posing a burning question we haven’t heard yet: Can a mentally ill Iraq war veteran who murdered his pregnant wife and two of his children learn how to love again?" this overlong mawkish yet weirdly mesmerizing film doesn’t just invite identification with its tragically unhinged character; it compels it by piling on biblically horrible misfortunes weepy confessions and editorializing music. (The soundtrack includes earnest pop songs by Bruce Springsteen Ray LaMontagne and the supporting actor Joe Morton as well as a hysterically overblown  score by Ludek Drizhal that could be titled “Ennio Morricone’s Viking Funeral.”)" and urges Jerry to befriend an  alcoholic fellow veteran Max (Mr. Morton) who turns out to be the local sheriff. Keep your head down soldier boy." who badly botches Jerry’s American accent but powerfully communicates the guilt fear and shame that are eating his guts out. Another is the sense that what we’re seeing onscreen isn’t “real” but the hero’s self-justifying projection of his miserable life — a suspicion confirmed in a coda that appears so late that it feels as  if the movie is copping out on its doom-spiral narrative." directed and edited by Francesco Lucente; director of photography Carlo Varini; music by Ludek Drizhal; production designer John Bitonti; produced by Olimpia Lucente and Jörg G. Neumann; released by Copex. Running time: 2 hours 40 minutes." the likes of which hasn’t been seen since Sam Fuller went to that great tabloid archive in the sky. This is the kind of film that communicates the idea of innocence by having  Celina dote on a doll skip everywhere and stridently announce that her prayers will bring her mom and brothers back." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/29/movies/29oswa.html
Joe Dell’Olio; edited by Patrick DiRenna; music by James Halfpenny; produced by Mr. Cato and Katha Cato; released by ChipAway Productions. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated." Katha Cato (B) Pamela Butler (Realtor) Vincent Polizzi (Building Manager) Buddy Smith (Guy) and Ben Oliver (Zaffi)." “Be My Oswald”  attempts high-wire artiness on a bargain-basement budget. This works for 15 of the film’s 94  minutes suggesting that somewhere inside this labor of lunacy lies a solidly engaging short film." the talented Jeannie Noth shoulders most of the burden as A an unfulfilled socialite fleeing a husband and a life of privilege. Embarking on what she believes to be a start-up humanitarian enterprise A follows the telephone instructions of her unseen employer the first of which is to secure a sixth-floor loft with a Broadway view. But when she discovers that the architect of her new life is a bewigged psychotic with plans to assassinate Santa during a Thanksgiving Day parade A must table her urgent need for a manicure to summon principles she never knew she had." Katha plays the Bible-obsessed assassin) “Be My Oswald” opens promisingly but degenerates rapidly. Shot on 16-millimeter film the early loft-hunting scenes — featuring a series of  landlords familiar to any New Yorker — have an energy and professionalism that evaporate once the medium changes to digital video.  By the time the focus narrows to the socialite the killer and a stuffed cat not even Santa  can reclaim our attention." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/28/movies/28sava.html
whose outbursts and moments of hilarious often voluble cruelty border on the shrill and the unspeakable. Ms. Jenkins has a gift for family brutality but she herself isn’t a savage talent. There isn’t a single moment of emotional guff or sentimentality in “The Savages ” a film that caused me to periodically  wince but also left me with a sense of acute pleasure even joy. It’s the pleasure of  a true-to-life tale told by a director and actors who’ve  sunk so deep into their movie together you  wonder how they ever surfaced. You live with Jon and Wendy Savage gratefully even when they can’t always do the same." ” Tamara Jenkins’s beautifully nuanced tragicomedy about two floundering souls you have to wonder if those hands didn’t also knock that cradle clear across the nursery sending both Savage children into perpetual free-fall." your mum and dad Philip Larkin  more or less wrote which though it provides steadfast inspiration for poets of all disciplines has emerged as one of the banes of American independent cinema. At first glance “The Savages ” which had its premiere in January at the Sundance Film Festival looks like another one of those dreaded indie encounter sessions in which everyone cracks wise and weary on the bumpy road to self-actualization. Ms. Jenkins whose gifted first feature “Slums of Beverly Hills ” fired up movie screens and critics nearly a decade ago seems incapable of such falsity. I bet she knows the rest of Larkin’s poem namely “They fill you with the faults they had/And add some extra just for you.”" the angry lump played by a brilliant — oh let’s just cut to it — the brilliant Philip Seymour Hoffman looks like a man who’s taken as much abuse as he likes to deliver. One night Jon a college  professor who lives and teaches in Buffalo is awakened from a deep sleep (Ms. Jenkins has a nice way with metaphor) to discover that his father Lenny (a fine Philip Bosco) has gone around the bend and has begun finger-painting with his feces. The bearer of these unfortunate tidings is Jon’s younger sister Wendy (Laura Linney sharp and vanity free) a self-professed playwright whose greatest perhaps only creation is the closely nurtured story of wounded narcissism and family wrongs unwinding in her head." Philip Seymour Hoffman (Jon Savage) Philip Bosco (Lenny Savage) Peter Friedman (Larry) David Zayas (Eduardo) Gbenga Akinnagbe (Jimmy) Cara Seymour (Kasia) Guy Boyd (Bill Lachman) Debra Monk (Nancy Lachman) Kristine Nielsen (Nurse) Margo Martindale (Roz) Zoe Kazan (Student) and Marianne Weems (Director)." and what caused his wife their mother to run away. She omits the talk-show psychology and instead lets the clues seep through the realistic-sounding snippets and strings of dialogue through sentences (not speeches) questions (not confessions) and silences as lived in as the story’s recognizably real and revelatory spaces. In Wendy and Jon’s separate if similarly cluttered homes you can almost see the layers of aspiration and disappointment that have accumulated alongside the dust and the books; in Lenny’s sterile house in Sun City Ariz. you see a man who has not only wiped away his past but has also erased part of his own self." but she acknowledges the paradoxical truth that suffering can also be a source of inspiration a way out of the childhood room we sometimes call the past. For Jon who is writing a book on Brecht and his playwright  sister life has become something of a performance. Both were probably given a role to play a long time ago — superior brother resentful sister — and now act out  their parts to perfection. (Jon who clings to Brecht as if to a baby blanket is something of a walking alienation effect. ) Jean Renoir once asked Where does theater end and life begin? Ms. Jenkins seems to answer that question reasonably by saying there is no separation." Mott Hupfel; edited by Brian A. Kates; music by Stephen Trask; production designer Jane Ann Stewart; produced by Ted Hope Anne Carey and Erica Westheimer; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes." quarrelsome fashion the Savages are blissfully neurotic often very funny variations on J. M. Barrie’s fictional offspring John and Wendy Darling those charmed magical storybook children. (In their moments of terrifying mutual dependency they can also recall the brother and sister in Jean Cocteau and Jean-Pierre Melville’s “Enfants Terribles.”) If Ms. Jenkins’s middle-age characters have never grown up in spirit and mind if not in body it isn’t because they flew off to Neverland in a cloud of fairy dust but because they did not and could not leave. Yet if Jon and Wendy have stayed locked inside Ms. Jenkins also suggests — through an image of flight of surprising force and beauty — that some children find other means of escape including their imaginations." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/28/movies/28revi.html
fluttering her feathery eyelashes. (Marianne Faithfull plays it quieter in “Don’t Look Back.”)  Women and girls cling to the edges of these documentaries waiting for Mr. Dylan yelling for him running after him clutching at him. It’s like watching someone try to catch mercury with her hands." Baby Blue ” “It’s Alright Ma (I’m Only Bleeding) ” “It Ain’t Me Babe”) green-room idling (“It Takes a Lot to Laugh It Takes a Train to Cry”)  and a duet with Joan Baez (“Laddie”) who always seems to be warbling or smiling at some intensely private joke. One of the film’s most suggestive scenes finds Ms. Baez asking Mr. Dylan if he can “concentrate” long enough to help her with some songs. Mr. Pennebaker a founding figure in the direct-cinema movement never comments on his material so you’re left to wonder what in the world all that was about. (He never even tells you that the singers were lovers.)" not his 1965 British concert tour he made the somewhat maddening decision to cut down the songs in that first film  to tantalizing bits and pieces. The problem of course being that the songs were as much a part of this youthquaking sensation as his pipe-cleaner-skinny legs his fuzzy ’fro bobbing head sly smile riffs rants puns and playful otherworldly genius." “65 Revisited” is best appreciated as an extension of “Don’t Look Back ” a kind of cinematic footnote. (Both are included in the DVD box edition of “Don’t Look Back” released in February.) Some of the same players appear in both documentaries including the tour manager Bob Neuwirth and Mr. Dylan’s manager Albert Grossman who enlisted Mr. Pennebaker to make the first film  and served as one of its producers." Tom Wilson makes a stylish stand-in for Allen Ginsberg.  Wearing shades an overcoat and an insouciant fez Mr. Wilson looks as cool as it gets cooler than even that poetic alley cat." Howard Alk and Mr. Pennebaker; edited by Walker Lamond and Mr. Pennebaker; produced by Frazer Pennebaker; released by Ashes & Sand Inc. and Pennebaker Hegedus Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 5 minutes. This film is not rated." ” in which a sardonic-looking Mr. Dylan flips through cards hand-printed with words and phrases from the song while standing in an alley. “65 Revisited” ends with a different take on the cue-card routine though this one takes place on what looks like a very nippy city roof. (A third cue-card clip is included in the DVD box.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/23/movies/23even.html
gracious movement through “Starting Out in the Evening ” I was reminded of Burt Lancaster in Luchino Visconti’s adaptation of “The Leopard.” In some ways the comparison is absurd — Visconti’s film is a sweeping historical symphony while Mr. Wagner’s is a stately string quartet — but both movies concern an old man who has outlasted the social order in which his life made sense. And what is so remarkable about Mr. Langella is that he seems to hold Leonard’s intellectual cosmos inside him to make it implicit in the man’s every gesture and pause." the resolve to keep going anyway — is the subject of this fine modest film. Not everything in it works — the score for one thing is vulgar and obvious in a way that Leonard Schiller would never tolerate in his own writing or anyone else’s — but it has the quiet beauty of a late afternoon late in the autumn when New York seems to be not just the center of the world but the crystallization of its finest tendencies." Lili Taylor (Ariel Schiller) Lauren Ambrose (Heather Wolfe) and Adrian Lester (Casey Davis)." Leonard’s nonliterary daughter is in some ways the most complex character in the story her temperament a thicket of contradictory impulses and desires. Approaching 40 she wants to have a child but finds herself drawn back into a relationship with Casey (Adrian Lester) whose resistance to parenthood had been the cause of their earlier breakup." “Starting Out in the Evening” offers a clear-eyed elegy for that world. It also notes the persistence personified by the seductive uncertain Heather Wolfe of the urge to connect to experience through the written word. Ms. Ambrose is self-assured enough to hold her own with Mr. Langella and Ms. Taylor (whose sister-in-law she played on “Six Feet Under”)  and brave enough to show the vain insecure unformed aspects of Heather’s personality. The character’s evident immaturity shows that the actress is wise beyond her years." literary New York the twilight of an idea of the city as a capital of the modern mind. Leonard Schiller one of the main characters is a retired teacher and all-but-forgotten novelist. His four completed novels are long out of print and we find him in his  70s pecking slowly away at a fifth." indeed not primarily between them but between each of them and an exalted notion of literature a passion that the film honors but does not sentimentalize. Writing and reading do not make Leonard and Heather better than they might otherwise be —  they may have the opposite effect — or even more complicated." Heather Ariel and Casey — pretty  much constitute the film’s universe. But even though it is less populous than Mr. Morton’s novel (which featured a cameo from the literary critic Alfred Kazin and a few more fictitious old-timers to keep Leonard company) the adaptation with a screenplay by Mr. Wagner and Fred Parnes rarely feels unduly claustrophobic or rarefied. Allusions and incidents that evoked the milieu of Leonard’s younger days and the texture of his mind have been pruned away. But in their place is the marvelous fact of Mr. Langella who carries every nuance of Leonard’s experience — including his prodigious obsessive reading — in his posture and his pores." which is also the slow unwinding of his life is interrupted by Heather Wolfe (Lauren Ambrose) an ambitious young graduate student who wants to write a master’s thesis on Leonard and then also perhaps reintroduce him to the reading public. He is both flattered and unnerved by the attention — which is more than simply scholarly — but to say too much about what happens between them would risk spoiling one of the most delicate and peculiar romances recently depicted on film." ” Andrew Wagner’s intelligent careful adaptation of a near-perfect novel by Brian Morton. This is not only a matter of the cinematography — digital video given an unusual burnish by Harlan Bosmajian the director of photography — or of the setting. Late in the day the sun slanting down over the North American mainland cloaks the brick and limestone of the Upper West Side of Manhattan in a somber serious light that may more than anything else explain the area’s reputation for deep and lofty thought." based on the novel by Brian Morton; director of photography Harlan Bosmajian; edited by Gena Bleier; music by Adam Gorgoni; production designer Carol Strober; produced by Nancy Israel Mr. Parnes Mr. Wagner Gary Winick and Jake Abraham; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes." sexual situations and references to the work of D. H. Lawrence." Leonard as embodied by Frank Langella is a picture of old-fashioned decorum and steadfast dignity. There is a certain kind of man who will not leave his house without putting on a tie. Leonard wears one firmly knotted in a crisp white collar at his writing desk or his kitchen table." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/23/movies/23quie.html
Elisha Cuthbert (Venessa  Parks) William H. Macy (Gene Shelby) Sascha Knopf (Paula) John Gulager (Goldie) and Jamison Jones (Scott Harper)." while contemplating mass murder in his cubicle he accidentally drops a round. Crawling  under his desk to retrieve it he hears shots and discovers that   his office neighbor has pre-empted him and is  killing people. Bob pulling his gun shoots him then saves the life of Venessa  Parks (Elisha Cuthbert) a seriously wounded fellow worker." Brandon Trost; edited by Kirk  Morri; music by Jeff Beal; production designer Ermanno Di Febo-Orsini; produced by Michael Leahy and Mr. Cappello; released by Mitropoulos Films. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. This film is not rated." though not literally of course. A cowering glowering office worker who brings out the sadist in everyone he is often seen in close-up through a fish-eye lens. Bent over in a reflexive cringe wearing oversize aviator glasses and a little red mustache he is a creature you want to step on and squash." the wittily named Fortune 500 company where he does something undefined with sheets of numbers Bob keeps a gun which he surreptitiously loads and unloads while fantasizing about the half-dozen people he intends to kill. In his briefcase he also keeps a black box with a red detonator. On his lunch hour he visits a bluff opposite his office tower opens the briefcase and imagines blowing up the building." cheered by one and all. Befriended by his younger bullying boss (Jamison Jones) he is promoted by A.D.D.’s slimy corporate kingpin Gene Shelby (William H. Macy) to vice president of creative thinking given an office on a higher floor with a window and the use of a car; in reality he is Shelby’s gofer." ” a surreal creep show with a scatological sense of humor tosses out ideas about vigilante justice sanity and madness personal redemption and corporate duplicity with the abandon of a crazed juggler tossing pins too high to catch. Such is the bravado of the movie written and directed by Frank Cappello that your initial impulse is to assume that it must know what it’s doing. But by the time it reaches a weak ambiguous conclusion the movie has gone everywhere and nowhere much like its psychotic main character Bob Maconel (Christian Slater)." who is now  a quadriplegic from a bullet in her spine. Summoning him to her hospital bed she spits in his face and curses him for not letting her die. When he returns the next day she apologizes then begs him to finish the job. Refusing at the last minute he begins to discover his humanity and the movie envisions a weird romantic co-dependency developing between them." Mr. Slater at least humanizes Bob enough to make you pity him though not enough to eliminate the lingering impulse to crush him under your foot." beneath the surface of this milquetoast is the seething rage of a man who has had the stuffing kicked out of him. In the movie’s opening voice-over monologue Bob mutters paranoid idiocy about the erosion of manhood and the decline of heroism in the age of feminism. Alone in his suburban home he is taunted by his goldfish. He has a fetishistic attachment to a figurine of a hula girl in a lei and a grass skirt." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/23/movies/23norm.html
Arthur S. Africano; edited by Ray Hubley; produced by Joseph Scarpinito and Michael Badalucco; released by Journeymen Films. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of the Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 1 hour 7 minutes. This film is not rated." ” which collapsed before filming could begin. Wary of being disappointed twice Mr. Lloyd declined to participate in Welles’s next project “Citizen Kane ” but rebounded with the title role in “Saboteur” (which is being shown by Film Forum on a double bill with this documentary). He went on to act in Hitchcock’s “Spellbound ” then took a job with the production company of the director Lewis Milestone (“All Quiet on the Western Front”)." ” a documentary about the veteran actor director and producer." who was born in 1914 has been a member of Orson Welles and John Houseman’s Mercury Theater company the producer of the American stage production of Bertolt Brecht’s “Galileo” (starring Charles Laughton) a friend and tennis partner of Charlie Chaplin a star of Alfred Hitchcock’s thriller “Saboteur” and the show runner for “Alfred Hitchcock Presents ” a resister of the Hollywood blacklist and a regular on television’s “St. Elsewhere.”" the best thing about knowing Milestone was that it let him get close to Chaplin Jean Renoir and most of all Hitchcock." who is interviewed throughout and serves as the movie’s de facto storyteller has a fairy tale narrator’s voice with an East Coast “society” cadence one rarely hears anymore except in old movies. He was actually born in Jersey City and raised in Brooklyn; at one point he lets the accent slip so we can hear what he sounded like before the elocution studies took hold." he was unemployed for many years dependent on the kindness of friends like Mr. Houseman who let the Lloyds stay at one of his homes virtually rent free. Hitchcock returned him to employability insisting in 1957 that Mr. Lloyd be hired as a producer on his CBS series. When Mr. Lloyd speaks on camera of his blacklist experience his voice quakes and his eyes well up." though we get the sense of a Norman Lloyd who is earthier and scrappier than the sweet raconteur showcased on screen as when Mr. Lloyd goes to visit his old friend Karl Malden 95 and stops just short of affectionately calling Mr. Malden an unprintable epithet on camera." the actress Peggy Lloyd since 1936 still acts in everything from Hollywood features to student films and is a tennis fanatic. (He plays singles and doubles on screen with much younger partners; when he serves the ball goes “thwop.”)" who was a writer on “St. Elsewhere ” describing Mr. Lloyd as a combination of Peter Pan and Father Time and it’s hard to disagree. Above all else “Who Is Norman Lloyd?” is an inspiring film about growing old emphasis on “growing.”" Matthew Sussman has made a valentine to a show business legend. But luckily this is a rare case in which the subject is by consensus such an accomplished man and decent fellow that the director can’t be accused of overdoing it." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/23/movies/23eagl.html
with English subtitles) by Yasuo Hasegawa and Kenzaburo Iida based on a novel by Tetsuo Takashima; director of photography Hideo Yamamoto; edited by William Anderson; music by Takeshi Kobayashi; production designer Hajime Oikawa; produced by Michihiko Umezawa Masakazu Yoda Teruo Noguchi Tomiyasu Moriya and Kei Fujiki; released by Shochiku Company/Universal Pictures (Japan). At the Imaginasian Theater 239 East 59th Street between Second and Third Avenues. Running time: 131 minutes. This film is not rated." prompting high-level government hand-wringing and a top-secret military mission to locate the aircraft and its nuclear payload before undefined rivals can get there first. A widowed and war-traumatized photographer (Takao Osawa) scampers through the mountains trying to locate the bomber while his sister-in-law (Yuko Takeuchi) the adoptive parent of the hero’s young son tries to track down a wounded secret agent who witnessed the crash." Yuko Takeuchi (Keiko Arisawa) Hiroshi Tamaki (Shinichiro Ochiai) Eisaku Yoshida (Major Akihiko Saeki) Yoshihiko Hakamada (Toshimitsu Fuyuki) Nao Omori (Major Kensuke Saito) Ken Ishiguro (Tadao Miyata) and Tatsuya Fuji (Prime Minister Takafumi Watarase)." in which the hero tenderly offers an Arab child a candy bar only to see him destroyed by a mortar to the present-day subplots in which the sister-in-law nurses a morphine-addicted agent while neglecting her own nephew “Midnight Eagle” is filled with images of parents who are self-interested sometimes hapless yet indispensable." “Midnight Eagle” addresses the strained unequal military relationship between the United States and Japan likened in various subplots to that of a distant inept or otherwise inadequate parent and his dependent child." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/23/movies/23cool.html
the movie adopts a cheerful comic tone to avoid scaring audiences. Instead of the grand overview of global warming offered by Al Gore in “An Inconvenient Truth”  it leans toward the Michael Moore school of activist filmmaking while avoiding Mr. Moore’s rabble-rousing stunts." Bill McKibben the activist and author of “The End of Nature ” is shown organizing a grass-roots demonstration in Vermont. And Ross Gelbspan who has written extensively about  global warming is seen addressing high school students in Brookline Mass." realistically it is too late for fundamental changes that would halt global warming to be put into practice within what he sees as a 10-year deadline." Mr. Gold; animation by Jeremiah Dickey and Emily Hubley; edited by Toby Shimin and Jacob Steingroot; music by Stephen Thomas Cavit; produced by Mr. Gold Ms. Helfand Chris Pilaro and Adam Wolfensohn; released by City Lights Pictures. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes. This film is not rated." a lobbyist for the oil industry hired by the White House to head its Council on Environmental Quality who edited and softened alarming scientific reports on climate change to make them appear ambiguous. Two days after The New York Times published an article about his alterations he resigned and was quickly hired by Exxon Mobil." who rattled the environmental movement three years ago with their critical essay “The Death of Environmentalism.” Those writers who appear in the movie disparage what they call the “I have a nightmare” tone of doomsayers who think that pictures of polar bears stranded on ice caps will move the public. Doom and gloom prophecies promote passivity they argue. People have to be informed of the potential economic and social benefits from developing  clean new energy technologies." ” a documentary directed by Daniel B. Gold (who narrates) and Judith Helfand and adorned with clever animations by Jeremiah Dickey and Emily Hubley traces the politics of  global warming politics back to 1987 when the phenomenon was more commonly called the greenhouse effect. According to the movie the issue didn’t become politicized until the oil and coal industries recognized a threat to their economic well-being and undertook a misinformation campaign that continues to this day." doubt means delay. On television where every issue is presumed to have two sides shills from the fossil fuel industry glibly dispute the overwhelming scientific evidence for global warming. Casual viewers can thus reassure themselves that they don’t have to worry about climate change. Given the warnings that the world has a narrow window of opportunity to reduce carbon emissions drastically who doesn’t wish that those oil and coal flacks and their well-funded political supporters were right?" ” a breezy polemic about the politics of global warming: The fossil fuel industry doesn’t care who wins or loses the debate about the reality of global warming as long as the public continues to feel that it is debatable." “Everything’s Cool” sometimes slips into frivolity. A segment about the eco-disaster movie “The Day After Tomorrow” is neither enlightening nor amusing. The film wastes too much time observing Bish Neuhouser a snow groomer at a Utah resort who converts his vehicles to bio-diesel fuel. It observes Heidi Cullen the Weather Channel’s resident climatologist as she is taught to dumb down her climate reports and deliver them in an easy conversational tone. Like putting pills in applesauce the frivolity at least makes the movie’s bitter medicine easier to swallow." ” he says. And it is a curse to even think “Why bother? ” which would mean abandoning the fight. And so he persists." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/21/movies/21ther.html
I would not subtract a minute of this movie or wish it any different. Nor do I anticipate being finished with “I’m Not There” anytime soon since like “Subterranean Homesick Blues ” it invites endless interpretation criticism and elaboration. Instead of proposing a definitive account of Bob Dylan’s career Mr. Haynes has used that career as fuel for a wide-ranging (and if you’ll permit me freewheeling) historical inquiry into his own life and times. In spite of its title “I’m Not There” is a profoundly movingly personal film passionate in its engagement with the mysteries of the recent past." based on a story by Mr. Haynes; director of photography Edward Lachman; edited by Jay Rabinowitz; production designer Judy Becker; produced by James D. Stern John Sloss John Goldwyn and Christine Vachon; released by the Weinstein Company. In Manhattan at Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 2 hours 15 minutes." adding up to an experience that is as fascinating and inexhaustible as listening to “Blood on the Tracks” or “The Basement Tapes.”" vision or art. But a certain kind of artist will comb through the old stuff that’s lying around — the tall tales and questionable memories the yellowing photographs and scratched records —  looking for glimpses of a possible future. Though there’s a lot of Bob Dylan’s music in “I’m Not There ” Mr. Haynes is not simply compiling golden oldies. You hear familiar songs but what you see is the imagination unleashed —  the chimes of freedom flashing." skinny frame and photographed in silvery Nouvelle Vague black and white — pinball through swinging London subsisting on amphetamines Camel straights and gnomic talk it feels like a pop earthquake. The ’60s man! As Mr. Ledger’s character and his wife (Charlotte Gainsbourg) meet marry and fall apart it feels like the heartbreaking aftermath of a moment of high promise and possibility. (That would be the ’70s.)" and like Mr. Dylan’s best songs it is at once teasingly arcane and bracingly plain-spoken. Mr. Haynes switching styles colors film stocks and editing rhythms with unnerving ease (and with the crucial help of Jay Rabinowitz and Edward Lachman the editor and the director of photography) has held his cerebral and his visceral impulses in perfect balance. “I’m Not There” respects the essential question Mr. Dylan’s passionate followers have always found themselves asking — What does it mean? — without forgetting that the counter-question Mr. Dylan has posed is more challenging and for a movie more important: How does it feel?" wisecracking hobo who calls himself Woody Guthrie (Mr. Franklin) and saddling up with Mr. Gere’s Billy the Kid in Riddle Mo. in the 19th century you feel a piercing nostalgia for a pastoral America that probably  existed only in legend. With Christian Bale playing a star of the Greenwich Village coffeehouse scene who resurfaces as a Pentecostal minister in Los Angeles years later you experience a prickle of confusion and morbid curiosity. As it all unfolds there may be other feelings too including awe at the quality of the performances and occasional exasperation at Mr. Haynes’s sprawling hectic virtuosity." Cate Blanchett (Jude Quinn) Marcus Carl Franklin (Woody Guthrie) Richard Gere (Billy) Heath Ledger (Robbie) Ben Whishaw (Arthur Rimbaud) Kris Kristofferson (Narrator) Charlotte Gainsbourg (Claire) David Cross (Allen Ginsberg) Bruce Greenwood (Keenan Jones/Pat Garrett) Julianne Moore (Alice Fabian) Michelle Williams (Coco Rivington) Richie Havens (Old Man Arvin) Peter Friedman (Morris Bernstein) Alison Folland (Grace) Yolonda Ross (Angela Reeves) Kim Gordon (Carla Hendricks) Mark Camacho (Norman) Joe Cobden (Sonny) and Kristen Hager (Mona)." Mr. Haynes’s film hurls a Molotov cocktail through the facade of the Hollywood biopic factory exploding the literal-minded anti-intellectual assumptions that guide even the most admiring cinematic explorations of artists’ lives. Rather than turn out yet another dutiful linear chronicle of childhood trauma and grown-up substance abuse Mr. Haynes has produced a dizzying palimpsest of images and styles in which his subject appears in the form of six different people." a Jewish teenager growing up in Eisenhower-era Minnesota borrowed a name from a Welsh poet and the singing style of an Oklahoma Dust Bowl troubadour and bluffed his way into the New York folk scene. That was chutzpah. What followed was genius — the elaboration of an enigmatic mercurial personality that seemed entirely of its moment and at the same time connected to a lost  agrarian past. From the start Mr. Dylan has been singularly adept at channeling and recombining various strands of the American musical and literary vernacular but he has often seemed less like an interpreter of those traditions than like their incarnation." he also actively solicits it (“Something is happening here/But you don’t know what it is/Do you Mr. Jones?” in “Ballad of a Thin Man”). So it is only fitting that Todd Haynes in “I’m Not There ” his incandescent rebus of a movie inspired by Mr. Dylan’s life and music has chosen to multiply puzzles and paradoxes rather than solve them. Not for nothing does one of Mr. Haynes’s stories take place in a town called Riddle." though all of them evoke actual and invented points in the Dylan cosmos: Billy the Kid Woody Guthrie the Mighty Quinn. They’re not all musicians: One is a poet named Arthur Rimbaud; another is a movie star." though Mr. Haynes came close with “Far From Heaven ” his 2002 homage to the director Douglas Sirk. And while “I’m Not There” is immersed in Dylanology it is more than a document of scholarly preoccupation or fan obsession." modern media culture thrives on the traffic in counterfeit selves. In this world the greatest artist will also be almost axiomatically the biggest fraud. And looking back over the past 50 years or so it is hard to find anyone with a greater ability to synthesize authenticity — to give his serial hoaxes and impersonations the ring of revealed and esoteric truth — than Bob Dylan." swearing brief violence and drug use." as they track Mr. Haynes’s allusions not only to Mr. Dylan’s own music but also to the extensive secondary literature it has inspired from books by David Hajdu and Greil Marcus to films including D. A. Pennebaker’s 1967 documentary “Don’t Look Back ” some of which Mr. Haynes remakes shot for shot." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/21/movies/21ench.html
her drawn figure  suddenly made flesh. There amid the bustling and hustling she finds shelter with a guarded single father Robert (Patrick Dempsey) and his motherless daughter Morgan (Rachel Covey). Melodrama looms mostly and somewhat unfairly because of another woman (Idina Menzel) but the director Kevin Lima keeps the tone light and playful while also scaling some charmingly dizzy heights with two musical numbers one a rousing complexly choreographed song and dance in Central Park with what looks like the entire Broadway dance corps the other a brilliantly surrealistic number with Giselle and some urban critters. You may never look at a water bug the same way again." which is so flat-out bizarre and grotesquely funny — and executed straight without knowing smirks — that it threatens to send the story off the rails. Part of this number’s  pleasure comes from the naughty thrill of watching a beloved near-sacred film — in this case “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs ” Disney’s sublime first animated feature — gleefully turned upside down and inside out. The old Warner Brothers animators used to take rollicking aim at Disney on occasion but it’s something else to watch Disney send up Disney as it were and do it with such sneaky breezy irreverence. It’s “Snow White” as redone by John Waters." oh my." a pastel creation with a pointy chin and trilling voice merrily chattering with her furry and feathered woodland friends. Although she isn’t scrubbing down the front steps in rags and clogs Giselle has clearly been conceived more thematically than visually along the same lines as  classic Disney heroines  like  Snow White and Cinderella. She’s pretty she’s perky she’s flat (well not entirely) and when she sings about her one true love it isn’t long before he emerges on horseback answering her call with a Stephen Schwartz and Alan Menken refrain of his own. Hi ho hi ho it’s off to the chapel they would go if not for  his wicked witchy stepmother." Don Burgess; hand-drawn animation supervisor James Baxter; edited by Stephen A. Rotter and Gregory Perler; music by Alan Menken with songs by Mr. Menken and Stephen Schwartz; production designer Stuart Wurtzel; produced by Barry Josephson and Barry Sonnenfeld; released by Walt Disney Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes." thereby freeing young female hearts and minds from the curse of Prince Charming so it’s no surprise that “Enchanted”  trips up  on its way to the finish. The windup disappoints as does Susan Sarandon’s Queen Narissa who enters in a bilious puff as if dressed for a fetish ball. The queen  arrives blessedly late to a party that lasts a remarkably long time in part because of the dunderheaded Prince Edward (an excellent James Marsden) a crafty fly in the ointment (the equally stellar Timothy Spall) and a  computer-generated chipmunk called Pip (voiced by Mr. Lima and Jeff Bennett).  I’d gladly tell you about Pip’s close call with crucifixion but I don’t want to scare the children." but it’s unusual that one delivers an ending that makes you feel unsullied and uncompromised that doesn’t make you want to reach for your Simone de Beauvoir or a Taser. “Enchanted ” an unexpectedly delightful revisionist fairy tale from of all places Walt Disney Pictures doesn’t radically rewrite  every bummer cliché about girls of all ages and their dreams. But for a satisfying stretch the film works  its magic largely by sending up at times with a wink at times with a hard nudge some of the very stereotypes that have long been this company’s profitable stock in trade." characterized by a script that   falters only  in the clinch some agile if overly timid direction and a strong cast led by a  superb Amy Adams. As Giselle an otherworldly princess who falls to Earth (worse yet Times Square) Ms. Adams proves to be an irresistibly watchable screen presence and a felicitous physical comedian with a gestural performance and an emotional register that alternately bring to mind the madcap genius of Carole Lombard and Lucille Ball. Ms. Adams doesn’t just bring her cartoonish character to life: she fills Giselle’s pale cheeks with blood and feeling turning a hazardously cute gimmick into a recognizable very appealing human confusion of emotion and crinoline." Patrick Dempsey (Robert Phillip) James Marsden (Prince Edward) Timothy Spall (Nathaniel) Idina Menzel (Nancy Tremaine) Rachel Covey (Morgan Phillip) Susan Sarandon (Narissa) and Kevin Lima and Jeff Bennett (Pip)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/21/movies/21yiddish.html
and its abandonment is the melancholy heart of “Yiddish Theater ” lending the film direction and depth of purpose. When asked why so many Jews voluntarily relinquished it the author Nahma Sandrow is clear: “It was the language of the dead.” Ms. Spaisman would have furiously disagreed." Seymour  Rexite — the film is by turns cranky funny wistful and resolute. Jack Lebewohl the owner of the original Second Avenue Deli proudly shows off the Yiddish Walk of Fame while the salty Mr. Rexite  (who also died in 2002) rushes us through the invaluable archive of the Hebrew Actors Union. Hoping for more discourse his director encouragingly mentions the 1 000-year history of the Yiddish language. “I know that; I wasn’t there at the time ” is Mr. Rexite’s priceless response." “Yiddish Theater: A Love Story” tracks eight days in the failing life of the Yiddish Public Theater founded by Ms. Spaisman (who died in 2002) after her separation  from the Folksbiene in 1998. But as we watch the dwindling audiences and desperate fund-raising attempts the survival of the theater becomes the gateway to a passionate argument for the survival of an entire culture." the Polish-born “Yiddish diva” and onetime mainstay of the Folksbiene Yiddish Theater (today called the National Yiddish Theater-Folksbiene) the result was a project he had never planned to make." with English subtitles) by Mr. Katzir and Ravit Markus; director of photography Mr. Katzir; edited by Neta Dvorkis and Adam Shell; produced by Ms. Markus and Yael Katzir; released by New Love Films. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/21/movies/21mist.html
based on a novella by Stephen King; director of photography Rohn Schmidt; edited by Hunter M. Via; music by Mark Isham; production designer Gregory Melton; produced by Mr. Darabont and Liz Glotzer; released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer and Dimension Films. Running time: 2 hours 7 minutes." delicate and light gray and full of unknown possibility. It initially surges and billows and moves with unnerving quiet by turns flowing like water and gathering mass its smoky tendrils creeping like long fingers. In an early scene it hovers like a wary animal next to a metal gate at the back of the supermarket. A cluster of men David among them are trying to decide whether it’s safe to go outside and have slid the gate up just a little. They peer at the mist and the mist seems to confront them in turn though no one grasps its brooding pulsing aliveness. Then a tentacle slithers into view and slimes across the floor." leaving holes that Mr. Darabont fills with greater and greater heaps of portentous dialogue some of which taps into ideas about the mass psychology of fascism and sounds straight out of a 1950s-style television talkfest. Among the most tiresomely yakky is an evangelical Christian Mrs. Carmody (Marcia Gay Harden in clover) whose observations about the End of Days first attract testy scorn and then an increasingly violent following inside the little supermarket community. This latter-day Aimee Semple McPherson turns out to be just as much a threat as the mist though a considerably less pleasurable narrative conceit and one that might have worked if Mr. Darabont hadn’t spent so much time preaching his own brand of scripture." gun and monster violence and some adult language." Marcia Gay Harden (Mrs. Carmody) Andre Braugher (Norton) Laurie Holden (Amanda) Toby Jones (Ollie) Jeffrey DeMunn (Dan Miller) Frances Sternhagen (Irene) Nathan Gamble (Billy Drayton) William Sadler (Jim) Alexa Davalos (Sally) and Sam Witwer (Jessup)." and we have met the enemy and he is us and let him without sin cast the first stone. That’s too bad because Mr. Darabont does some estimable work in “The Mist ” particularly when he moves away from the chattering mob and returns to the mist and its riddles to its eerie insectlike whirring and periodic elephantine trumpet blasts. In the haunting images of men and women cautiously venturing outside their bodies melting into the mist he offers a stronger more palpable sense of what it means for human beings to be truly frightened than he does with any of the dialogue. He makes fear visible." “The Mist” isn’t half bad. In fact until the monsters and the meaning start to emerge this shivery story works your nerves far better than most recent horror does largely because it knows that nothing scares moviegoers better than our own overactive reactive imaginations. This is a film that knows how to make you jump in your seat simply by showing you next to nothing: It knows you’ll eagerly fill in the blanks all by your lonesome genre-conditioned self." meaning under 500 pages and pounds “The Mist” takes place in a small Maine town where everyone seems to know everyone else by name or by sight. Most of the action unfolds inside a supermarket where the townspeople have gathered to stock up on supplies in the wake of a large storm that hit the night before. Among the shoppers are David Drayton (Thomas Jane) and his young son Billy (Nathan Gamble) who along with the rest of the customers stand by in shock when a bloodied man bursts in yelling murder and mayhem most foul. Something or someone seems to have snatched up another man sucking this lost soul into the fast-creeping swallowing mist." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/21/movies/21hit.html
at times ridiculously miscast Timothy Olyphant stars as the titular contract killer who has been raised by some monastic-looking male order to travel the world in bloody business class from Africa to Europe to Russia with hate. He’s a globe-trotting unholy man a messianic messenger of murder. He’s also bald has a bar code tattooed on the back of his head and is known only as 47. Women leave him cold (if vaguely rattled) which probably comes as a relief to the movie’s presumptive adolescent male target audience." based on the video game character created by Rasmus Guldberg-Kjaer; director of photography Laurent Bares; edited by Carlo Rizzo and Antoine Vareille; music by Geoff Zanelli; production designer Jacques Bufnoir; produced by Pierre-Ange Le Pogam Charles Gordon and Adrian Askarieh; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes." Dougray Scott (Mike Whittier) Olga Kurylenko (Nika) Robert Knepper (Yuri Marklov) Ulrich Thomsen (Belicoff) Michael Offei (Jenkins) and Henry Ian Cusick (Udre Belicoff)." “Hitman” exploits every action-flick cliché imaginable and still manages to be dull. It’s bang boom blah — action movies for bored dummies." though its details are sufficiently uninteresting to the director Xavier Gens as to make them uninteresting to anyone watching (or reading about) this mess. In “Hitman ” Mr. Gens whose feature debut “Frontière(s) ” earned legitimacy by playing at the 2007 Toronto International Film Festival lavishes his attention on blowing stuff up including dozens upon dozens of people. Life is always cheap in the exploitation racket but it’s still tiresome watching one after another anonymous extra get a sizable hole blown through his body to watch movie blood spray like water amid chunks of fake body bits especially when there’s no story to speak of no decent acting no wit no point." there is a point which is to reel an audience in with an entertaining spectacle of death. In this regard Mr. Gens fails despite owing a visual and thematic debt to Luc Besson whose company helped produce this junk. There’s loads of noisy violence and R-rated gore in “Hitman ” along with the regulation female nudity (via Olga Kurylenko) but these flashy parts never cohere or gather momentum." Mr. Olyphant’s robotic assassin moves through corridors in effective mimicry of a familiar video game visual strategy pausing every so often to peer through a gun scope stare at the pulsing lights on his laptop or brutally dispatch one more generic human obstacle. On occasion the story shifts to Dougray Scott whose indifferent turn as an Interpol agent chasing after 47 nicely mirrored my own reaction to the on-screen din." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/21/movies/21ever.html
who appeared briefly in “What Is It?” ensconced in a supersize seashell while being sexually stimulated by a woman’s hand is now as screenwriter and star the master of his own pornographic fantasy world which stems from his frustrations with being disabled. (Mr. Stewart who had cerebral palsy and used a wheelchair died before the film’s completion.) He portrays himself as a serial lady-killer whose long-tressed  victims  not only understand clearly what he says (a luxury audiences won’t share) but also  readily sleep with him unaware that he will strangle them afterward." Mr. Stewart  moves us to pity and revulsion in essence recreating feelings similar to those that might be experienced by someone faced with a disabled person in reality." traveling showman Mr. Glover will again be on hand before each screening to present his hourlong “Big Slide Show ” which like his films is wildly impassioned and macabrely fascinating." Margit Carstensen (Linda Barnes) Carrie Szlasa (Karma Barnes) Jami Farrell (Julie) April Hoglund (Girl in Nursing Home) and Anna Stave (Girl on Street)." “It Is Fine! Everything Is Fine.” Like last year’s Part 1 “What Is It? ” this follow-up (with David Brothers as co-director)  will attract only the most adventurous filmgoers who will have to wade through some rather repugnant material to weigh the movie’s merits." Wayne Baxter; edited by Molly Fitzjarrald and Mr. Glover; production designer Mr. Brothers; produced and released by Mr. Glover. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 14 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/21/movies/21chri.html
the film is  not  dull but it does feel hopelessly overstuffed with scant time to devote to any one story line." ” the Whitfields — a mother her three sons three daughters and two grandchildren — gather along with various significant others for a Christmas crammed with more melodrama than all the holiday-homecoming flicks from the past decade combined." one daughter states that people are afraid to hum in the presence of Mom who blames music for stealing away her husband just minutes after the family has engaged in a borderline-embarrassing dance-along to Kool & the Gang’s “Get Down On It.” (Again only in the movies.)" there are pregnancies covert interracial marriages gambling debts new romances divorces repressed musical talents bar brawls and catfights." the gifted cast members again show off their moves in a dance sequence that might have better served as a DVD extra. But at least they’re having fun — more than audiences probably  will as they’re pounded over the head with this mostly formulaic holiday cheer." Idris Elba (Quentin Whitfield) Loretta Devine (Ma’ Dere) Chris Brown (Michael  Whitfield) Keith Robinson (Devean Brooks) Laz Alonso (Malcolm Moore) Columbus Short (Claude Whitfield) Sharon Leal (Kelli Whitfield) Lauren London (Mel  Whitfield) David Banner (Mo) Mekhi Phifer (Gerald) and Regina King (Lisa Moore)." Alexander Gruszynski; edited by Paul Seydor; music by Marcus Miller; production designer Dawn Snyder; produced by Mr. Whitmore and Will Packer; released by Screen Gems. Running time: two hours." and a lifetime of secrets boil to the surface over a few short days." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/21/movies/21augu.html
directed by Kirsten Sheridan from a screenplay by Nick Castle and James V. Hart is acted in a style best described as overawed. Oblivious to persecution and exploitation Mr. Highmore’s August glides through the movie with a beatific smile on his face. Mr. Rhys Meyers and Ms. Russell who have no romantic chemistry wander about in an emotional limbo." Evan flees from a group home in New Jersey to New York City where he falls in with a band of runaways living in the old Fillmore East Theater in the East Village. Here Wizard (Robin Williams) the Fagin character in the movie’s “Oliver Twist”-inspired subplot reigns as their cunning surrogate father who collects and distributes their earnings from panhandling." who has never touched a musical instrument picks up a guitar for the first time and plays it like a pro Wizard christens him August Rush a rock-star-worthy name taken from the side of a truck and seeing a potential gold mine exploits August for every penny he can earn. After the boy demonstrates the same talent on a church organ there is no stopping his meteoric ascent. In six months he is conducting a symphony orchestra performance of his original composition on the Great Lawn in Central Park." most of it including August’s “Rhapsody” (composed by Mark Mancina) is amorphous pumped-up schlock." the pregnant Lyla is hit by a car and gives birth prematurely. In the most preposterous of the many ludicrous plot twists in a movie whose continuity is flimsy at best her father forges her signature on adoption papers gives the baby away then tells her it died. Louis and Lyla abandon their performing careers and morosely search for they know not what." Keri Russell (Lyla Novacek) Jonathan Rhys Meyers (Louis Connelly) Terrence Howard (Richard Jeffries) Robin Williams (Wizard) and William Sadler (Thomas Novacek)." musically gifted miracle child. August Rush (Freddie Highmore) hears music everywhere. Whether it’s the wind in the grass or the roar of a subway the sounds of the world are a symphony to his ears and the movie’s soundtrack offers a Hollywood realization of a John Cage idea in which all sounds are music." based on a story by Paul Castro and Mr. Castle; director of photography John Mathieson; edited by William Steinkamp; music by Mark Mancina; production designer Michael Shaw; produced by Richard Barton Lewis; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes." introduced as  Evan Taylor has absolute faith that music will mystically reunite him with his parents who he is certain must be somewhere out there although he has no clues to their identity. As we learn early in the movie those parents —  Louis Connelly (Jonathan Rhys Meyers) an Irish rock singer with a musical sweet tooth and Lyla Novacek (Keri Russell) a classical cellist —  fell in love at first sight and conceived him on a rooftop overlooking Washington Square but were kept apart by her conniving ambitious father (William Sadler)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/16/movies/16reil.html
and a couple of them attempt impressions.)" “Reilly” is built around a video recording of “Save It for the Stage ” a one-man stage show by Mr. Reilly an actor showbiz gadfly and Tony Award-winning theater director. The show and therefore the film that preserves it is a bittersweet volume of anecdotes interspersed with archival images and scored (often unnecessarily) with misty-watercolor-memory music composed by Mr. Anderson." his friendship with Hal Holbrook and the influence of his mother a brash bigoted fiercely protective woman whose favorite admonition gave her son the title of his show." Mr. Reilly’s exuberant deployment of his reedy voice and expressive hands proves the acting teacher’s cliché that   the body is the only prop a performer needs." Tony Balderrama; edited by Mr. Poltermann; music by  Mr.  Anderson; production designer Sean Carson; produced by Bob Fagan and Wrye Martin; released by L’Orange Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 87 minutes. This film is not rated." who died on May 25 as a game show guest and a regular on Johnny Carson’s couch. But there was more to the man than kitsch celebrity and “Life of Reilly” lets the man make the case." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/16/movies/16reda.html
“Redacted” rarely hits the audience with a genuine shock or a clarifying insight. It churns through a set of ideas and emotions that are confusing and unpleasant to be sure but also by now dispiritingly familiar. This is not entirely Mr. De Palma’s fault though I think he may have misdiagnosed the condition of the audience which is not lack of information about Iraq but rather a pervasive moral and political paralysis. The information is out there — confusing and painful yes but nonetheless available for discussion and analysis." macho pseudomilitary vernacular. And most of the actors many of them appearing for the first time in a feature film lack either the skill or the directorial guidance to endow their characters with a full range of credible motives and responses." of course is a way of doing something and I am grateful that Mr. De Palma brought such conviction to the task. “Redacted” is certainly a painful document of its time a record of anguish confusion and uncertainty. And if Mr. De Palma has in the end failed to transcend those feelings or to address them with the clarity and freshness of perspective that art requires and that the times so desperately demand the failure is hardly his alone." ” a prizewinner in Venice and a polarizing selection at film festivals in Telluride Toronto and New York is one of a slew of new American movies that try to deal with the war in Iraq and related matters. Their moods and methods vary widely — “Redacted” is furious and confrontational; Robert Redford’s “Lions for Lambs” is pedagogical and talky; Paul Haggis’s “In the Valley of Elah” is mournful and unsettled — but I find myself drawn in each case to more or less the same conclusion. I am glad the movie was made and I wish it were better." Daniel Stewart Sherman (B. B. Rush) Patrick Carroll (Reno Flake) Mike Figueroa (Sgt. Jim Ross) Ty Jones (Master Sgt. Sweet) Rob Devaney (Lawyer McCoy) Kel O’Neill (Gabe Blix) Zahara Al Zubaidi (Farah) and Bridget Barkan (Judy McCoy)." a soldier in an especially dangerous part of Iraq dreams of a career in Hollywood and imagines that his video diary will be his ticket to fame. When he isn’t turning the camera on himself he shoves it in the faces of his comrades in arms and in the process captures their boredom and belligerence. He also reveals them to be figures familiar from just about every platoon picture since the 1940s." since the film traffics in and clearly means to provoke strong unbalanced emotions. Its dominant notes are rage fear and revulsion. Mr. De Palma’s premise implicit in his choice of title and stated in many interviews and public  pronouncements is that the truth about Iraq has been edited and obscured kept away from the American public. Debatable as this claim may be Mr. De Palma has tried to fill the gaps in our understanding — to bring us face to face with what we have been unable to see or unwilling to acknowledge — with a collage of raw images and angry arguments." premeditated act — the rape of a teenage girl who is killed along with her family — is based on a real atrocity that took place in Iraq  last year. (The insurgent bomb and the beheading that frame this episode are also obviously grounded in reality.) The rape also recalls “Casualties of War ” Mr. De Palma’s grievously misunderstood 1989 film about a similar incident in Vietnam. Both films walk a delicate line between moral investigation and exploitative sensationalism and in both cases the measure of Mr. De Palma’s artistic seriousness is his willingness to ask not only what it means to take part in an act of murderous sexual violence but also what it means to represent it and to watch the representation." he has made a film whose governing conceit is that it is not a film at all but rather a palimpsest of found video culled from consumer-grade camcorders surveillance cameras cellphones and Web sites. (There are also snippets from a French documentary a mischievous parody complete with portentous music and solemn narration.) “Redacted” takes us on a tour not only of the battlefield but also of the modern media environment where no moment goes unrecorded and where everyone is at least potentially a filmmaker." his nose buried in a book; the square-jawed earnest Boy Scout type (Rob Devaney);  and a pair of brutes (Daniel Stewart Sherman and Patrick Carroll) whose volatility will spark the film’s central dramatic event." its potential power undermined by schematic storytelling and clumsy acting. What those handheld low-definition recording devices capture is less unvarnished reality — or a persuasive simulacrum of it — than dinner theater or underrehearsed made-for-television drama." not actions." Jonathon Cliff; edited by Bill Pankow; production designer Phillip Barker; produced by Jason Kliot Simone Urdl Joana Vicente and Jennifer Weiss; released by HDNet Films and Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 90 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/16/movies/16park.html
infidelity spousal abuse and arrested development are the building blocks of “Park ” a wearisome comedy about disturbed vehicle-bound Angelenos who take a very long lunch hour in a very ugly public park. Viewers familiar with this type of ensemble effort will not be surprised to learn that by the end all have revealed considerably more than what’s in their sandwiches." the mostly polished cast is hampered by an unfunny script (by the director Kurt Voelker) and desiccated surroundings that  offer no diversion from the general buffoonery. Most ill used of all is William Baldwin whose role as a materialistic lawyer engaged in extramarital kink with a saucy Polish immigrant (Izabella Miko) demands near-naked buttocks and near-constant shrieking. By the time his luxury S.U.V. flies over a cliff you can’t help but view the incident as a metaphor for his entire performance." there’s really not much left to say." Ricki Lake (Peggy) Cheri Oteri (Claire) Melanie Lynskey (Sheryl) Izabella Miko (Krysta) David Fenner (Ian) Dagney Kerr (April) and Anne Dudek (Meredith)." Christophe Lanzenberg; edited by Anita Brandt Burgoyne and Paul Warschilka; music by John Pratt and Michael Alemania; produced by Dana M. Jackson. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 86 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/16/movies/16marg.html
unpleasant as they are are depicted with bracing individuality. Ms. Leigh and Mr. Black have never been better — Pauline and Malcolm for all their troubles are at least trying to be honest and kind — and Mr. Pais more than holds his own in very intense company." it all spins out of control in a pileup of exposed secrets buried lies and moral failures expressed in a cacophony of screams tears and furious whispers. To the extent that a narrative structure is discernible amid the chaos “Margot at the Wedding” could be described as a farce. And for all the wild at times aggressive originality of its literary and visual style the film belongs to a familiar genre in which a filmmaker gathers a gaggle of kinfolk under one roof for a big event — though Pauline and Malcolm’s must be the most haphazardly organized wedding in film history — and watches the sparks fly sprinkling gasoline on them when necessary." the husband she is planning to leave is also some kind of writer as is Dick (Ciaran Hinds) with whom she’s having an affair. Margot’s sister Pauline (Jennifer Jason Leigh) who didn’t speak to her sister for a long time does not have any evident profession but she seems to have made a vocation out of insecurity and self-scrutiny. Her fiancé Malcolm (Jack Black) whom she describes as “brilliant ” dabbles in music painting and letters to the editor though his main achievement is growing a mustache. “It’s meant to be funny ” he says." Ingrid (Flora Cross). Margot awkwardly reaches out to Malcolm. Pauline turns her needy affection on whoever is in the room. But the occasional moment of kindness or sincerity is more often than not a pause in the hostilities and a chance for the filmmaker to set up another painful comic explosion." Harris Savides; edited by Carol Littleton; production designer Anne Ross; produced by Scott Rudin; released by Paramount Vantage. Running time: 93 minutes." but Mr. Baumbach’s resistance to cliché is nonetheless admirable. His last movie “The Squid and the Whale ” was flecked with references to French filmmakers like Jean Eustache and Jean-Luc Godard and his intention in “Margot at the Wedding” seems to have been to make a French movie with American characters." finally baffling film. In the final third the proliferating complications and dramatic revelations start to feel increasingly rushed and hysterical. There is a fine line between depicting emotional anarchy and succumbing to it and Mr. Baumbach eager to avoid anything that might seem obvious stacks up appalling and improbable climactic incidents that finally undermine the logic of the story. The result is that the audience may tire of the characters too quickly. Yes they’ve been dreadful from the start but interesting enough that you at least wanted to stick around and see what they would do next. Which makes your relief at being rid of them (after only 93 minutes!) something of a disappointment as well." even if adults wish they didn’t." the more complicated she is allowed to be the better she is and a whole school of psychoanalysis could be founded on a case study of Margot. The summary diagnosis might be that she’s just vain selfish and mean — someone you would back away from slowly before running in the other direction. But if you were her son or her sister — or even her future brother-in-law — you might not have that option and anyway “Margot at the Wedding ” despite its title and what she might think is not all about Margot." for example why Margot and Pauline did not speak to each other for so many years but the fact of their estrangement is as believable as their reluctance to rehash its origins for our benefit. The realism of “Margot at the Wedding” — the texture of unpredictable lived experience that keeps both farce and melodrama in check — lies in its sense of sprawl and untidiness in the feeling that the movie itself is snipped from an endless tangle of bad feelings and good intentions." Jennifer Jason Leigh (Pauline) Zane Pais (Claude) Jack Black (Malcolm) John Turturro (Jim) Flora Cross (Ingrid) and Ciaran Hinds (Dick)." mother against son neighbor against neighbor lover against lover. And the combatants do love one another (except for the neighbors who hurl garbage over the fence and scream obscenities on hiking paths). If they did not they would be unable to inflict or suffer hurt the way they do with well-aimed humiliation cruelty disguised as solicitude and strategic displays of sensitivity and its opposite." squirm-inducingly funny. Mr. Baumbach the child of literary parents has an unfailing ear for the idioms of the intelligentsia and an acute sense of family politics. The alliances that form in the course of the film’s hectic story which takes place over a few days in a rambling seaside house are shifting and unstable." ” a face is slapped some punches and kicks are thrown and a gracious old shade tree is subjected to assault by chain saw. It all sounds pretty tame compared with what you might encounter on neighboring screens at the multiplex. This is as my colleague Caryn James pointed out in a recent essay a notably bloody season at the movies. So if you are interested in gore and gunplay you can seek out “Saw IV” or “No Country for Old Men.” When it comes to emotional violence however “Margot at the Wedding” is hard to beat." for the most part a worthy ambition. The Gallic influence is evident not only in the quick sometimes abrupt cuts between scenes and the intimate breathless camera work but also in the way the film is entirely absorbed in the particulars of its characters and their world. You are plunged into their lives rather suddenly — the first scene riddled with jump cuts and bumpy tracking shots takes place on a train — and you proceed through a thicket of idiosyncrasies allusions and private jokes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/16/movies/16mago.html
whose previous major credit was the screenplay for the Will Ferrell comedy “Stranger Than Fiction ” which envisions a sophisticated adult version of the same kind of magic. But if the concept is ingenious its execution is erratic. The story is arbitrarily divided into chapters of varying length that have no clear beginning middle or end and the movie’s narrative drive is sporadic." Henry Weston (Jason Bateman) whom he calls Mutant to go through years of erratic bookkeeping determine the store’s value and help arrange its passage into Molly’s hands. A prototypical uptight numbers cruncher Henry seems like the last person in the world who would understand what the store is about. With the emporium’s future up in the air its most devoted customer (and the movie’s narrator) Eric Applebaum (Zach Mills) a shy lonely 9-year-old makes a pitch for it." sensing its days are numbered rebels and stages a full-scale temper tantrum. The toys turn on the customers (not violently I hasten to add) and nothing works as it should. After the tantrum subsides the magic rapidly dissipates. The brightly colored walls warp and turn black and the place eventually resembles a charred ruin in which nothing stirs." it is a place where every item from the adorable stuffed animals to the self-propelling tops is alive and kicking swooping swirling and spinning. When a customer requests an item a clerk consults a giant alphabetized book of inventory and on the appropriate page a whole little world pops out. One of the store’s most heartening qualities is its dearth of war toys and sexy dolls. Mr. Magorium’s signature plaything is a paper glider that once deployed keeps sailing around the room." Roman Osin; edited by Sabrina Plisco and Steven Weisberg; music by Alexandre Desplat and Aaron Zigman; production designer Thérèse DePrez; produced by Richard N. Gladstein and James Garavente; released by Fox Walden. Running time: 93 minutes. This film is rated G." the 243-year-old proprietor of a magic toy store that opened its doors 114 years ago? You could describe them both as crazy sane. Mr. Magorium’s high-flown tangents suggest that the movie a fantasy pitched mostly to 6-year-olds also seeks to impress their 60-year-old grandparents with its zany erudition." Dustin Hoffman (Mr. Magorium) Jason Bateman (Henry Weston) and Zach Mills (Eric Applebaum)." if it is to exist requires that you believe in it with all your heart. Stuffed with enough toys to fill several department stores his shop suggests a surreal enlargement of Pee-wee’s Playhouse by way of “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.” It is wonderful indeed and you wish the movie had spent more time simply wallowing in it." avuncular dreamer with mad-scientist hair who keeps a pet zebra Mr. Magorium resembles a superannuated Pee-wee Herman with a deeper voice. Mr. Hoffman’s studied performance in this seriously weird movie refrains from Hermanesque extremes but is engaging nonetheless." Molly Mahoney (Natalie Portman) a once-promising classical pianist and composer who lost her inspiration. But when he announces the bequest she balks believing she lacks the power to keep the store alive. (One of the movie’s weaknesses is Ms. Portman’s attitude of disengagement. Even when magic is all around the sparkle in her eyes is dim.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/16/movies/16cook.html
“How to Cook Your Life” presents a man humbled by unruly emotions. As he flares with anger over tardily cooked spinach or tears up at the memory of a battered teapot his road to enlightenment seems as rocky as our own." Jörg Jeshel and Ms. Dörrie; edited by Suzi Giebler; music by b:sides music production Florian Riedl and Martin Kolb; produced by Franz X. Gernstl and Fidelis Mager; released by Roadside Attractions. In Manhattan at the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 93 minutes." produce-theme title card the director Doris Dörrie occasionally succumbs to clichéd symbolism as when a flickering barrage of television channels exemplifies the frantic pace of modern life. And while a glancing critique of society’s wastefulness — illustrated most vividly by a Dumpster-diving woman with no need for a grocery budget  — is mildly entertaining it only distracts from the film’s greatest asset: Mr. Brown’s personality." the documentary observes Mr. Brown at several of the Buddhist centers — including the Tassajara Zen Mountain Center in California — where he offers students his patented blend of recipes and meditation. Dough-kneading techniques are enlivened by homilies from his mentor Suzuki Roshi (who died in 1971 and whose beaming countenance is captured in snippets of old black-and-white film) and punctuated by Mr. Brown’s frequent throaty chuckles. He’s a self-deprecating preacher." baking and spiritual uplift “How to Cook Your Life” introduces us to the cooking classes of Edward Espe Brown a twinkling Zen priest and vegetarian chef." Ore.; Seattle; Denver; Phoenix; Santa Fe N.M.; Albuquerque; and Tucson." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/16/movies/16chol.html
for which no amount of lush scenery can substitute is the  voice of Mr. García Márquez’s omniscient narrator. The language of “Love in the Time of Cholera” is its lifeblood. While reading the novel you can almost smell the stink of illness and death as well as the  flowers and  fecundity of life in a tropical climate. Where the novel wraps you in an intoxicating sensuality the movie shrinks from the overwhelming physicality of Mr. García Márquez’s imagination. In its scenes of disease it politely wrinkles its nose before hurrying on." which at long last gives Florentino license to resume his pursuit of Fermina after 50 years of pining then doubles back to 1879. It ends with Florentino’s and Fermina’s voyage on a riverboat which has dropped anchor in the Magdalena River." it slides into the void between art and entertainment where well-intended would-be screen epics often land with a thud." the looming sense of fate that pervades Latin American fiction and in particular Mr. García Márquez’s writing are absent. Perhaps a bolder director (Alfonso Cuarón? Guillermo del Toro? Alejandro González Iñárritu? Pedro Almodóvar?) more culturally attuned to this author and his voluptuous imagination might have found an appropriate cinematic language to tell the story. “Love in the Time of Cholera” has no voice of its own." based on the novel by Gabriel García Márquez; director of photography Alfonso Beato; edited by Mick Audsley; music by Antonio Pinto; production designer Wolf Kroeger; produced by Scott Steindorff; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 120 minutes." a latter-day  Colombian Don Quixote is one of the greatest fools for love in modern literature. Javier  Bardem the movie’s primary asset imbues this soulful eccentric poet with the appropriate tragicomic balance of nobility and absurdity." the Italian actress who plays Fermina is attractive and sultry. The character has the temperament of a heavy thunderstorm; the actress  conveys only  distant rumbles and flickers of lightning. As Florentino and Fermina age more than 50 years Mr. Bardem’s Florentino visibly shrinks and withers into a stooped old man whose cow-eyed gazes soften into a doting faraway twinkle. Ms. Mezzogiorno’s much less convincing decline reminds you of the bluish-haired Elizabeth Taylor at the end of “Giant.” Although he has bedded more than 600 women Florentino saves his essential self for Fermina. One of the novel’s most seductive notions is the idea of virginity of the soul of the essential self  reserved for  one’s true love." trembling teenage suitor) who woos Fermina and initially wins her heart. But he loses her when her socially ambitious father Lorenzo Daza (John Leguizamo in a near-apoplectic one-note performance) bans him from the house and promotes her marriage to Juvenal. It ends in the 1930s after Florentino has ascended from telegraph operator and writer-for-hire of flowery love letters into a wealthy ship owner under the tutelage of his uncle Don Leo (Hector Elizondo)." the metaphorically loaded story of a man’s lifelong passion for a beautiful woman who marries another man emerges as a weightless picturesque gloss." in which Florentino represents an impractical and superstitious 19th-century dreaminess. Juvenal Urbino (Benjamin Bratt) the handsome European-trained doctor who marries the object of Florentino’s lifelong obsession Fermina Daza (Giovanna Mezzogiorno) is his 20th-century counterbalance. Juvenal represents the new era of science technology and pragmatic problem solving. If romantic love is a disease like cholera Juvenal has the knowledge and wherewithal to cure it. But the  movie  makes the doctor a shallow self-important know-it-all strutting around in a cream-colored top hat and tails." Giovanna Mezzogiorno (Fermina Daza) Benjamin Bratt (Juvenal Urbino) Catalina Sandino Moreno (Hildebranda Sánchez) Hector Elizondo (Don Leo) Liev Schreiber (Lotario Thurgot) Fernanda Montenegro (Tránsito Ariza) Laura Harring (Sara Noriega) John Leguizamo (Lorenzo Daza) and  Unax Ugalde (young Florentino)." Florentino is both the embodiment of passion ennobled by suffering and a ridiculous clown afflicted with the disease of passion for which cholera is a pungent metaphor. In awkwardly illustrating this paradox the film teeters between slapstick (several scenes of Florentino’s frenetic sex life) and soap opera. The book’s philosophic content is reduced to a few scattered asides. The magical realism in which the past pervades the present and the dead haunt the living is suggested by the fleeting appearance of a ghost in the background." Florentino  comes across as a pallid Xerox copy of the author’s creation." who directed is British and Mr. Harwood who was born in South Africa has a background in British theater which may explain why the film’s characters even those played by  Hispanic actors come across as relocated Dickensian caricatures." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/16/movies/16buy.html
Reverend Billy the charismatic bleached-blond performance artist and mock evangelist whose real name is Bill Talen this is part of a larger problem. His get-up may be for show but his activism is the real deal and his mission is to fight what he calls the “shopocalypse ” the buying frenzy Americans indulge in every holiday season." San Francisco and Los Angeles." based on a story by Savitri D Morgan Spurlock Bill Talen and Mr. VanAlkemade; narrated by Alan Sklar; directors of photography Alan Deutsch Daniel Marracino Martin Palafox Alex Stikich and Mr. VanAlkemade; edited by Gavin Coleman Stela Georgieva and Mr. VanAlkemade; music by William Moses; choir director and choreographer James Solomon Benn; produced by Peter Hutchison Stacey Offman and Mr. Spurlock; released by Warrior Poets Productions. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." his wife and organizer of his Church of Stop Shopping; and the church’s gospel choir. Along the way they deliver their message — that peace and love not spending are the true backbone of holiday spirit — through witty speeches and songs to unsuspecting patrons at assorted problem spots like Wal-Mart the Mall of America  and Disneyland." many clueless as to what globalization means — long enough for them to consider his crusade. At the very least the film might make  a viewer think twice about that next purchase at the Gap." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/16/movies/16beow.html
based  on the epic poem; director of photography Robert Presley; edited by Jeremiah O’Driscoll; music by Alan Silvestri with songs by Mr. Silvestri and Glen Ballard; production designer Doug Chiang; senior visual effects supervisor Jerome Chen; produced by Mr. Zemeckis Steve Starkey and Jack Rapke; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time:  114  minutes." but he looks pleasingly disgusting like a stringy chewed-up cadaver with snake scales and a suggestion of Mr. Glover’s own beak.  Grendel soars through the air pretty much the way Mr. Zemeckis’s busy camera does: Both are full of zip. They’re certainly fun to watch as they Ping-Pong across the frame though neither goes anywhere meaningful. By contrast the human characters move with a perceptible drag effect as if underwater with none of the kinetic vibrancy of real bodily locomotion. That makes the 3-D effects all the more important because the only time the movie pops is when something or someone seems to be flying at you." Anthony Hopkins (Hrothgar) John Malkovich (Unferth) Robin Wright Penn (Wealthow) Brendan Gleeson (Wiglaf) Crispin Glover (Grendel) Alison Lohman (Ursula) and Angelina Jolie (Grendel’s mother)." its cadences deep history and context this film version of “Beowulf” doesn’t offer much beyond 3-D oohs and ahs sword clanging and a nicely conceived dragon which probably explains why Mr. Zemeckis and his collaborators have tried to sex it up with Ms. Jolie among other comic-book flourishes. The same no doubt accounts for why Mr. Winstone an actor of substantial stomach girth who is every inch a sexy beast in his own right has been transformed into a generic-looking gym rat complete with six-pack. Somewhere in B-movie heaven Steve Reeves is smiling." I don’t yet see the point of performance capture particularly given how ugly  it renders realistic-looking human forms. Although the human faces and especially the eyes in “Beowulf” look somewhat less creepy than they did in “The Polar Express ” Mr. Zemeckis’s first experiment with performance capture they still have neither the spark of true life nor that of an artist’s unfettered imagination. The face of Mr. Hopkins’s king resembles the actor’s in broad outline in the shape and curve of his physiognomy. But it has none of the minute trembling and shuddering that define and enliven — actually animate — the discrete spaces separating the nose eyes and mouth. You see the cladding but not the soul." including spears swords pools of gore dribbles of mucous and images with extremely forced perspectives which direct your vision toward the center of the frame goosing the 3-D effect. Mostly he throws  technology at us. The main characters in the movie were created through performance capture a system that allows filmmakers to map an actor’s expressions and gestures onto a computer-generated model which is then further tweaked. (Eye movements are captured separately.) Neither wholly animation nor live action it is a sophisticated visual technique and true believers see it as the future of movies though really the most interesting thing about it is that it’s not intrinsically interesting." the first against Grendel (and his mother) the second against a dragon. Beowulf visits the Danish kingdom where he eyeballs the queen (Robin Wright Penn) and promises to fight Grendel for the king (Anthony Hopkins). In between intimations of court intrigue the rest of the characters do what they almost always do in movies set in Ancient Times namely grunt shout and eat with their mouths open. Eventually Grendel crashes the party and Beowulf leads the charge bouncing off beast and walls completely naked his genitals hidden by convenient obstructions. Somehow this trick was a lot funnier in “Borat” and “The Simpsons Movie.”" ” a wicked demon the mother of all monsters — here Grendel played by Crispin Glover — who can switch from hag to fab in the wink of a serpentine eye. If you don’t remember this evil babe from the poem it’s because she’s almost entirely the invention of the screenwriters Roger Avary and Neil Gaiman and the director Robert Zemeckis who together have plumped her up in words deeds and curves. These creative interventions aren’t especially surprising given the source material and the nature of big-studio adaptations. There’s plenty of action in “Beowulf ” but even its more vigorous bloodletting pales next to its rich language exotic setting and mythic grandeur." whose gorgeous translation of the poem became an unexpected best seller after it was published in 1999 Grendel “comes alive in the reader’s  imagination as a kind of dog-breath in the dark.” The reader’s imagination of course has long been one of the banes of cinema. Any filmmaker who takes a stab at literary adaptation has to compete with those moving pictures already flickering in our heads the ones we create when we read a book. The solution for many filmmakers is to try to top the reader’s imagination or distract it or overwhelm it usually by throwing everything they can think of at the screen including lots of big: big noise sets moves effects stars and yup even big breasts." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/14/movies/14sout.html
and it’s neither a novel occurrence nor especially notable: Sofia Coppola was booed as were Antonioni and Bresson. Even so the critical reaction to “Southland Tales” was harsh and in some instances as ugly as it can get when the wolf pack starts to circle with one critic actually wondering if its director had ever met another human being. Since then Mr. Kelly has streamlined the narrative excising characters and plot threads (blink and you’ll miss a trace of Janeane Garofalo’s  redacted performance) added some nifty special effects and secured domestic distribution. The film still sprawls at times beautifully at times maddeningly but its ambition and pleasures remain undiminished." “Southland Tales” again confirms that Mr. Kelly who made a startling feature debut with “Donnie Darko ” is one of the bright lights of his filmmaking generation. He doesn’t make it easy to love his new film which turns and twists and at times threatens to disappear down the rabbit hole of his obsessions. Happily it never does which allows you to share in his unabashed joy in filmmaking as well as in his fury about the times. Only an American who loves his country as much as Mr. Kelly does could blow it to smithereens and then piece it together with help from the Rock Buffy Mr. Timberlake and a clutch of professional wisenheimers. He does want to give peace a chance seriously." for starters a genre pastiche a blast of conscience. It’s also overly plotted and at once too long and too short. It took Stanley Kubrick 102 tidy minutes to blow the world to Kingdom Come in “Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb ” one of Mr. Kelly’s touchstones. (His other influences: “Kiss Me Deadly ” “Double Indemnity ” David Lynch Fox News comic books video games “Saturday Night Live ” years spent living in Los Angeles.) By contrast “Southland Tales” clocks in at 2 hours 24 minutes. It sounds padded but I miss the 19 minutes shorn from it in the aftermath of its disastrous premiere at the 2006 Cannes Film Festival." ” Richard Kelly’s funny audacious messy and feverishly inspired look at America and its discontents opens with the very biggest of bangs. The place is Texas the time is 2005 and a crowd of laughing men women and children are celebrating the Fourth of July when a mushroom cloud blooms in the sky igniting World War III. Not long after the smoke clears Justin Timberlake playing an Iraq war veteran with a thing for quoting Revelation ominously intones in voice-over:  “This is the way the world ends this is the way the world ends this is the way the world ends not with a whimper but with a bang.”" including the linchpin figure Boxer Santaros played with lilting delicacy by Dwayne Johnson. After having gone inexplicably missing Boxer — identified as an actor with ties to the Republican Party — has re-emerged on the grid in Venice amnesiac and nestled in the arms of an entrepreneurial porn star Krysta Now given dignity and melancholic soul by a lovely Sarah Michelle Gellar.  Together Boxer and Krysta (she’s all about now not later) have written an apocalyptic screenplay that they’re trying to pitch amid the intrigue and noise. Everyone wants a part of Boxer but all he wants to do is research his role which he does by riding shotgun with a mysterious cop (Seann William Scott terrific)." the story shifts to 2008 when on the eve of a presidential campaign competing interests are jockeying violently for power. Among the sprawling cast of unusual suspects are the “neo-Marxists ” mostly middle-age hippie chicks swinging Tasers and heavy rhetoric; a Republican presidential candidate and his Lady Macbeth of a wife; and a gaggle of totally awesome porn stars in hot pants and lip gloss who preach their own brand of liberation theology on cable television. Skulking on the sidelines is a mystery man with a spit curl who claims to have found a solution to America’s depleted reserves in something called Fluid Karma which will light up the country by harnessing the ocean’s power." ” which satirically imagines a wartime landscape unsettlingly close to a modern pessimist’s vision of the day after next. Mr. Kelly has purposely distorted Eliot’s poem which ends with the whimper not the bang and speaks to a ravaged Europe. Now  the wasteland is America where in the wake of nuclear attack the Bud Light still flows freely (par-tee!) though not the fossil fuel. Having reinstated the draft to stock its war fronts — in Iraq and Afghanistan along with Iran Syria and North Korea — America has gone into lockdown. Somewhere in Venice Calif. the revolution tick tick ticks." Steven Poster; edited by Sam Bauer; music by Moby; production designer Alexander Hammond; produced by Sean McKittrick Bo Hyde Kendall Morgan and Matthew Rhodes; released by Samuel Goldwyn Pictures. Running time: 144 minutes." Seann William Scott (Roland Taverner/Ronald Taverner) Sarah Michelle Gellar (Krysta Kapowski/Krysta Now) Curtis Armstrong (Dr. Soberin Exx) Joe Campana (Brandt Huntington) and Nora Dunn (Cyndi Pinziki)." which helps explain why a fastidiously polished film like “No Country for Old Men” can receive such  gushing  praise from critics. “Southland Tales” isn’t as smooth  and tightly tuned as “No Country ” a film I admire with few reservations. Even so I would rather watch a young filmmaker like Mr. Kelly reach beyond the obvious push past his and the audience’s comfort zones than follow the example of the Coens and elegantly art-direct yet one more murder for your viewing pleasure and mine. Certainly “Southland Tales” has more ideas visual and intellectual in a single scene than most American independent films have in their entirety though that perhaps goes without saying." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/14/movies/14moni.html
or more likely the discreet glimpses of her naked breasts and the charmingly broad expanse of her unclothed rear. This was Ms. Andersson’s first important film role and she is stunning with and without any clothing. Monika an impetuous mercurial and dangerously sentimental wild child lives in a crowded Stockholm tenement apartment with her family. One afternoon she thrusts herself into the arms of Harry (Lars Ekborg) a shy young stranger slightly her senior. Motherless and seemingly without friends Harry falls hard for Monika and she tumbles in turn. When she cries out that she loves him it’s like a stab to the heart his and ours." “Monika” shows a director in absolute control of his medium and its singular expressivity. In the early city scenes Bergman crowds the frame with objects and people creating a sense of claustrophobia for the lovers and for those of us watching them struggle to find a place of their own. Once they make their escape the jammed Cubistic cityscape gives way to pastoral vistas that melt into one another as the shimmering sun dissolves into images of glistening water and a sky as sheltering as it is limitless. In the sky’s  boundlessness you intuit the expanse of new love which Bergman also conveys through breathtaking close-ups of Monika and Harry nuzzling each other’s faces like foals." the 11th in an already complicated career though it had yet to open. He was supporting two ex-wives and five children from those unions as well as a third wife and an infant son. Ingmar Bergman had just turned 34." “Monika” arrives in New York again to light up the screen this time without a trace of impropriety. When the film first opened in America it played in art houses and grindhouses raising temperatures as “Summer With Monika” and “Monika: The Story of a Bad Girl.”  It’s possible that many viewers (including the young Woody Allen)  saw a shortened version that was peddled on the exploitation circuit as “A Picture for Wide Screens and Broad Minds.” (That may explain why this paper didn’t review it.)  It’s unclear which “Monika” was seized in 1956  by the Los Angeles vice squad which declared it indecent. A representative for the theater explained that it was an “art type.” Well of course." the teenagers quit their jobs and take off in his father’s small motorboat for a summer idyll of long days and sultry  nights. She makes coffee wearing nothing but a tiny sweater and enormous white briefs tiptoeing through the weeds. They sing and dance and dream. She sunbathes on the boat’s deck her shirt pulled low off her satiny shoulders and under Harry’s (and Bergman’s) appreciative gaze. When the food and the summer run out the lovers return home with her belly now gently swollen. As they motor through the city’s waterways the buildings seem to bear heavily down on them as foreboding as giants (or adults). The world shifts and settles as does Monika’s smile until each turns upside down." so much so that I gasped while watching the beautiful new print that will be shown at the IFC Center. I had seen the film before on battered VHS and Monika’s look certainly registers even in diminished shadow form. Yet the small pale face that floated like an apparition on my television set has nothing in common with the monumental head that loomed down from the movie screen devouring both the mise en scène and my attention. One head seems decorative shrunken in size and feeling; the other communicates an epic of emotion a fierce will resistance." long after summer has passed and the camera has caressed her image again and again. She is seated at a table having pushed the burning tip of her cigarette against the unlighted cigarette clenched in the mouth of the man opposite her. There’s something crude and forceful about the gesture and its transparent sexual suggestiveness. You can’t imagine her waiting for a man to light her up as Paul Henreid does with  Bette Davis in “Now Voyager.” But Monika who pulls her lovers into her bed without hesitation or shame was a new woman for a cinematic practice  that even today carries the shock and delight of the new." Monika comes across as a difficult even impossible heroine which seems very much to Bergman’s point. We can judge her if we so choose but he refuses as evident from the justly famous shot in which she looks directly into the camera for about 30 long seconds. In 1958  the young Jean-Luc Godard argued that with this shot Monika “calls on us to witness her disgust at involuntarily choosing hell instead of heaven.” I think Monika is defying us to judge her. She doesn’t belong to the world of domestic banality and neither did Bergman." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/14/movies/14indi.html
“I for India” moves beyond the personal without belaboring the political. In its quiet unassuming way the film understands that the complexities of identity are found in the heart and not the home." with English subtitles) and directed by Sandhya Suri; directors of photography Ms. Suri and Lars Lenski; edited by Cinzia Baldessari and Brian Tagg; produced by Carlo Cresto-Dina; released by First Run/Icarus Films. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 70 minutes. This film is not rated." filial responsibility and what we mean by home." the filmmaker’s father left India for England in 1965 he remained in touch with his parents and siblings by using matching sets of Super 8-millimeter cameras and audiotape recorders. The resulting missives lovingly shaped by the filmmaker into four decades of familial intimacy form the core of a movie that’s both deeply personal and surprisingly universal." English words and phrases begin to replace the native Hindi he sometimes struggles to recall. Increasingly anguished replies from his relatives mourn his absence and gently chide his abdication from the obligations of an eldest son. When a painful attempt to resettle in his homeland is unsuccessful Dr. Suri is forced to a philosophical — if not emotional — acceptance of a separation mandated by his desire for more than what he calls a mediocre life." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09coun.html
a world weary third-generation sheriff whose stoicism can barely mask his dismay at the tide of evil seeping into the world. Whether Chigurh is a magnetic force moving that tide or just a particularly nasty specimen carried in on it is one of the questions the film occasionally poses. The man who knows him best a dandyish bounty-hunter played by Woody Harrelson describes Chigurh as lacking a sense of humor. But the smile that rides up one side of Chigurh’s mouth as he speaks suggests a diabolical kind of mirth — just as the haircut suggests a lost Beatle from hell — and his conversation has a teasing riddling quality. The punch line comes when he blows a hole in your head with the pneumatic device he prefers to a conventional firearm." ” adapted by Joel and Ethan Coen from Cormac McCarthy’s novel is bleak scary and relentlessly violent. At its center is a figure of evil so calm so extreme so implacable that to hear his voice is to feel the temperature in the theater drop." round-robin chase that takes them through the empty ranges and lonely motels of the West Texas border country in 1980. The three men occupy the screen one at a time almost never appearing in the frame together even as their fates become ever more intimately entwined." a welder who lives in a trailer with his wife Carla Jean (Kelly MacDonald) and is dumb enough to think he’s smart enough to get away with taking the $2 million he finds at the scene of a drug deal gone bad. Chigurh is charged with recovering the cash (by whom is neither clear nor especially relevant) and poor Sheriff Bell trails behind surveying scenes of mayhem and trying to figure out where the next one will be." if “No Country for Old Men” were a simple face-off between the sheriff’s goodness and Chigurh’s undiluted evil it would be a far stiffer less entertaining picture. Llewelyn is the wild card — a good old boy who lives on the borderline between good luck and bad between outlaw and solid citizen — and Mr. Brolin is the human center of the movie the guy you root for and identify with even as the odds against him grow steeper by the minute." these three hombres are not quite the Good the Bad and the Ugly but each man does carry some allegorical baggage. Mr. Jones’s craggy vinegary warmth is well suited to the kind of righteous decent lawman he has lately taken to portraying. Ed Tom Bell is almost continuous with the retired M.P. Mr. Jones played in Paul Haggis’s “In the Valley of Elah.” It is hard to do wisdom without pomposity or probity without preening but Mr. Jones manages with an aplomb that is downright thrilling." and what the camera discloses is pretty much what the book describes: a parched empty landscape; pickup trucks and taciturn men; and lots of killing. But the pacing the mood and the attention to detail are breathtaking sometimes literally." it may equally be a symptom of delight. The specter of Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem) a deadpan sociopath with a funny haircut will feed many a nightmare but the most lasting impression left by this film is likely to be the deep satisfaction that comes from witnessing the nearly perfect execution of a difficult task. “No Country for Old Men” is purgatory for the squeamish and the easily spooked. For formalists — those moviegoers sent into raptures by tight editing nimble camera work and faultless sound design — it’s pure heaven." leaving behind some unsettling notions about the bloody absurd intransigence of fate and the noble futility of human efforts to master it. Mostly though “No Country for Old Men” leaves behind the jangled stunned sensation of having witnessed a ruthless application of craft." and see the shadows of the hunter’s feet in the sliver of light under the door. The footsteps move away and the next sound is the faint squeak of the light bulb in the hall being unscrewed. The silence and the slowness awaken your senses and quiet your breathing as by the simplest cinematic means — Look! Listen! Hush! — your attention is completely and ecstatically absorbed. You won’t believe what happens next even though you know it’s coming." for all its usual high-literary trappings (many philosophical digressions no quotation marks) is one of his pulpier efforts as well as one of his funniest. The Coens seizing on the novel’s genre elements lower the metaphysical temperature and amplify the material’s dark rueful humor. It helps that the three lead actors — Tommy Lee Jones and Josh Brolin along with Mr. Bardem — are adept at displaying their natural wit even when their characters find themselves in serious trouble." allow me my moment of bliss at the sheer brilliance of the Coens’ technique. And it is mostly theirs. The editor Roderick Jaynes is their longstanding pseudonym. The cinematographer Roger Deakins and the composer Carter Burwell are collaborators of such long standing that they surely count as part of the nonbiological Coen fraternity. At their best and for that matter at their less than best Joel and Ethan Coen who share writing and directing credit here combine virtuosic dexterity with mischievous high spirits as if they were playing Franz Liszt’s most treacherous compositions on dueling banjos. Sometimes their appetite for pastiche overwhelms their more sober storytelling instincts so it is something of a relief to find nothing especially showy or gimmicky in “No Country.” In the Coen canon it belongs with “Blood Simple ” “Miller’s Crossing” and “Fargo” as a densely woven crime story made more effective by a certain controlled stylistic perversity." though you have already been pulled into a seamlessly imagined and self-sufficient reality. The Coens have always used familiar elements of American pop culture and features of particular American landscapes to create elaborate and hermetic worlds. Mr. McCarthy especially in the western phase of his career has frequently done the same. The surprise of “No Country for Old Men ” the first literary adaptation these filmmakers have attempted is how well matched their methods turn out to be with the novelist’s." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09ward.html
and her sad but dry-eyed mother urges her to be strong you begin to wonder if the scene is a studious re-enactment." the tribe’s intricate 500-year-old royal dance you feel its ritual power healing broken lives." in which more than 20 000 Ugandan schools compete and expectations of their success are low. In the refugee camp 60 000 people live in squalid cramped quarters without electricity or running water and many suffer from malnutrition and disease. Because they come from a war-torn area where resources are scarce they are looked down on by their southern rivals who know that many were forced by the Lord’s Resistance Army to commit atrocities." to its detriment barely mentions and about which it supplies no historical background. Many were abducted from their villages in the middle of the night by the Lord’s Resistance Army a rebel group that turned kidnapped boys as young as 5 into soldiers and girls into sexual slaves. Many were snatched in front of their parents and some were forced at gunpoint to beat and kill family members and neighbors." some in tears tell their stories while gazing directly into the camera the shots seem posed and their remarks possibly rehearsed.  The production notes explain that the children felt more comfortable telling their stories directly to the camera than to an interviewer but you still have an uneasy sense of being manipulated." let me say that “War/Dance ” in spite of its slickness is an honorable sometimes inspiring exploration of the primal healing power of music and dance in an African tribal culture. The competition in the capital city Kampala is obviously much more than an entertaining talent show. Through music dance and drumming the children transmute fear and pain into profoundly cathartic spiritual affirmation." “War/Dance” focuses on the contest which includes some stirring performances in an atmosphere of high excitement. The film draws out the suspense as best it can until the inevitable African-style “American Idol” moment. If that finale is genuinely exhilarating you are still uncomfortably aware that this ecstatic conclusion doesn’t mean the end of the strife  or the refugees’ troubles. It is a blip of light on a dark canvas." this would-be crowd pleaser which won the documentary directing prize at this year’s Sundance Film Festival is so gorgeous that its beauty distracts from the anguish it reveals.  Atrocities are not shown only recalled in the quiet voices of children who witnessed them and in some cases committed them under duress." Mr. Fine; edited by Jeff Consiglio; music by Asche & Spencer; produced by Albie Hecht; released by ThinkFilm. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 105 minutes." ” much of which was filmed in the Patongo refugee camp in northern Uganda has the polish of a richly hued impeccably composed illustration. You wonder why the filmmakers felt obliged to shoehorn so many pretty sunsets into  the film which appears to be admiring itself in a mirror." a 13-year-old choir singer who witnessed her parents’ murder by the rebels; Nancy a 14-year-old dancer who took charge of her three younger siblings after her father’s killing  and her mother’s abduction;  and Dominic a 14-year-old former child soldier in the Lord’s Resistance Army whose passion is playing the xylophone." ” a visually ravishing documentary that follows a group of schoolchildren from a refugee camp in northern Uganda to a national music competition raises a fundamental issue for filmmakers confronting unimaginable suffering in war-torn African countries. To what degree should human savagery be softened sweetened and presented in a spirit of hope to make it palatable to a movie audience?" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09stea.html
where Ms. Polak (who had a boyfriend herself) forbade her husband to communicate with his mistress. Ms. Soep employed as a camp stenographer was able to comply." Manhattan residents who have been married for 60 years narrate their experiences with frank wit. The knowledge that their love endured infuses hope into a grim tale though one can’t help thinking that if Ms. Polak who died in 1995 had chimed in the glow would be less rosy." with English subtitles) and directed by Michèle Ohayon; director of photography Theo Van de Sande; edited by Kate Amend; music by Joseph Julian Gonzalez; produced by Ms. Ohayon and Mr. Van de Sande; voice of Ina Soep Ellen Ten Damme; voice of Jack Polak Jeroen Krabbé; released by Seventh Art Releasing/Red Envelope Entertainment. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 94 minutes. This film is not rated." then in Bergen-Belsen — alongside Manja Polak the wife he hoped to divorce after the war and Ina Soep the girlfriend he adored." ” says the 93-year-old Holocaust survivor Jack Polak in Michèle Ohayon’s documentary “Steal a Pencil for Me.” “And believe me it wasn’t easy.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09sacr.html
the Chilean film’s off-putting sometimes dizzying visual style — shaky fast-moving hand-held camerawork and heavy use of close-ups — settles down enough to reveal elements of absorbing drama layered with black humor and rare sexual and emotional frankness." an architecture student trying to follow in his hypercritical father’s professional footsteps visits his parents at their home along the scenic Chilean seashore. His girlfriend Sofia (Patricia López) a free-spirited acting major who is forever performing joins him just as his mother is called away to comfort a friend in crisis. Mom immediately senses that Sofia isn’t well suited to her son and as the cliché asserts she knows best." with English subtitles) directed and edited by Sebastián Lelio; director of photography Gabriel Díaz; music by Javiera y los Imposibles; produced by Úrsula Budnik; released by the Global Film Initiative. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 99 minutes. This film is not rated." Sergio Hernández (Marco the father) Coca Guazzini (Soledad) Patricia López (Sofia) Macarena Teke (Rita) Mauricio Diocares (Aldo) and Juan Pablo Miranda (Pedro)." least of all family." Good Friday through Easter Sunday and filmed in just as few Sebastián Lelio’s raw largely improvised “Sacred Family” initially looks as if it were photographed by a 5-year-old." not only in Marco and his father but also in a neighboring young woman and two of Marco’s close male buddies whose homosexual tendencies surface during a drawn-out Ecstasy-taking sequence (the most self-indulgent in Mr. Lelio’s debut feature)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09saaw.html
at least at first by Gulab (the divine Rani Mukherjee) a cheerful toiler in the red-light district of a city meant to suggest some combination of Chicago St. Petersburg Mumbai and Venice. One night an itinerant musician named Raj (Ranbir Kapoor) arrives in town and while Gulab is instantly smitten the object of her affection just wants to be friends. And friendly he is in the wide-eyed puppy-dog manner of certain Indian movie heartthrobs. (The more brooding strong-and-silent kind will show up a bit later in the person of Salman Kahn.)" whose heart belongs to Imaan (Mr. Kahn) whose return she awaits every night on a lonely bridge. She is either drawn to Raj or else she’s toying with him but in any case psychological realism has far less to do with their relationship than the necessity for duets pursuits down rainy half-lighted streets and sudden changes of mood and costume. The experience is visually enchanting cloyingly sweet at once utterly chaste and insanely erotic and finally exhausting. Aficionados will not settle for less." Rani Mukherjee (Gulab) Ranbir Kapoor (Raj) Sonam Kapoor (Sakina) Zohra Sehgal (Lilian Ji) and Begum Para (Badi Ammi)." ” but whatever Russian soul may dwell deep within it is pretty well drowned in Bollywood style. Eye and ear candy for fans of Indian musical cinema it is 2 hours 11 minutes — bracingly compact by Bollywood standards — of wide-screen close-ups fanciful sets colorful costumes bellybuttons almost-kisses and 10 pumped-up achingly sweet songs." directed and edited by Sanjay Leela Bhansali; written (in Hindi with English subtitles) by Prakash Kapadia and Mr. Bhansali based on the short story “White Nights” by Fyodor Dostoyevsky; director of photography Ravi K. Chandaran; music by Monty lyrics by Sameer; art directors Omung Kumar Bhandula and Vanita Omung Kumar; released by Sony Pictures International. Running time: 166 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09park.html
Alexandre Aja and Grégory Levasseur; director of photography Maxime Alexandre; edited by Patrick McMahon; music by tomandandy; production designer Oleg Savytski; produced by Mr. Aja Mr. Levasseur Patrick Wachsberger and Erik Feig; released by Summit Entertainment. Running time: 98 minutes." “P2” is bloody but not punishingly so limiting the gore to tightly edited set pieces that never linger. Having previously collaborated on “High Tension ”  the filmmakers work with smooth compatibility to extract maximum threat from their cavernous location. Prowling from one vacant level to the next the camera sweeps over damp concrete and misshapen shadows while Elvis and Eartha Kitt warble seasonally on the soundtrack. Taking the bus to work suddenly seems like a very good idea." and Angela Bridges (Rachel Nichols) a workaholic lawyer with a cool demeanor and a hot body is dismayed to find herself trapped in her deserted office building. Her mood doesn’t improve when she’s attacked and sedated and wakes up tied to a chair wearing a cleavage-baring frock and blood-red lipstick. Seated opposite is Thomas (Wes Bentley) the smiling security guard who only wants to share his Christmas dinner and love of Hemingway — a predilection guaranteed to make any thinking woman run for the hills." bitten blinded and squished." a creepy security guard and a filmmaking team with perfect synchronicity and the result is a minimalist nightmare." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09lion.html
gun violence and tough language." Meryl Streep (Janine Roth) Tom Cruise (Senator Jasper Irving) Michael Peña (Ernest Rodriguez) Andrew Garfield (Todd Hayes) Peter Berg (Lieutenant Colonel Falco) Kevin Dunn (ANX Editor) and Derek Luke (Arian Finch)." sincerity gravity indignation and outrage. Every mood feels phony a total put-on which works well for a character delivering a self-conscious constructed performance. As his audience of one Ms. Streep’s journalist must do a lot of listening which the actress does with one of her vibrant entertaining gestural performances. Every twitch blink shrug head bob and seat shift speaks softly at first and then with increasing volume giving physical form to the inner voice we actually hear only later. Mr. Redford’s camera pays her close appreciative heed as do we." Philippe Rousselot; edited by Joe Hutshing; music by Mark Isham; production designer Jan Roelfs; produced by Mr. Redford Mr. Carnahan Andrew Hauptman and Tracy Falco; released by United Artists/Metro Goldwyn Mayer. Running time: 90 minutes." there’s more — namely two other story threads the dreariest of which involves yet another two speakers locked in one claustrophobic space: a history professor Dr. Stephen Malley (Mr. Redford) who has summoned an apathetic student Todd Hayes (Andrew Garfield) into his office for a metaphoric spanking. One of those bright young things who puts the “i” in Generation iPod Todd has been dodging Malley’s class opting to turn off and tune out even while agreeing to drop in for morning coffee. It’s not nearly as much fun to watch these two largely because the screenwriter Matthew Michael Carnahan has stacked the deck so much in Malley’s favor you know the end of the conversation as soon as it gets going." which echoes the prevailing wisdom that you should support the troops even if you don’t support the wars. The problem isn’t whether this assertion is true; the problem is the film reflexively embraces it much as it does every single other cliché without inquiry challenge or a single ounce of real risk. It tells us everything most of us know already including the fact that politicians lie journalists fail and youth flounders. Mostly it tells us that Mr. Redford feels really bad about the state of things. Welcome to the club." more soporific than Socratic and brimming with parental chiding generational conflict and invocations of Vietnam. You see back in the day Malley fought in that war after being drafted. He didn’t want to fight didn’t agree with its aims but he did nonetheless which leads to another story fragment and two more of his students: a Latino Ernest Rodriguez (Michael Peña) and an African-American Arian Finch (Derek Luke). After absorbing Malley’s lessons about responsibility Ernest and Arian joined the army. These lion cubs don’t believe the current wars are righteous but they believe they can effect change from the inside which is how they land in an Afghan misadventure more unbelievable both in thematic and visual terms than Senator Irving’s military strategy." the Fourth Estate and Disaffected Youth all earn a stern knuckle rapping in “Lions for Lambs ” Robert Redford’s big-screen lecture about civic responsibility and its absence in the Age of Iraq. Those who remain shocked shocked that elected officials certain journalists and cosseted college students sat idly by huffing Hummer fumes and nodding out on 24/7 infotainment (all Britney all the time) while the administration led the charge first into Afghanistan and then into Iraq may find much to embrace here. Everyone else will continue to nod out or resume banging their heads against the wall in bloody frustration." the senator has taken aim at Iran which he tells Roth is allowing Iraqi terrorists to cross its borders on their way to Afghanistan where they will fight alongside Al Qaeda. As Roth leans forward you can almost see the thought bubble above her: Howzthatagain? But Roth is also vain; she’s a journalist after all and rubbing shoulders and who knows what else with movers and shakers has blunted her senses clouded her vision. Power is an aphrodisiac as well as addictive. And power begets power as Mr. Redford reminds us when he shows Roth looking at a Time magazine cover story she wrote about Irving. She helped make the senator and he did much the same for her in turn." home of the brave but also of the opportunistic and the compromised. Among the most conniving or most true-believing of these new Americans are politicians like Jasper Irving (Tom Cruise) a Republican senator with his eye on the White House. Among the most compromised among us or the most exhausted or timorous — or something — are journalists like Janine Roth (Meryl Streep) whom Irving has summoned to his office so he can pitch her a shiny new war plan. Mistakes were made he says but that was then this is now. From their framed photographs President Bush Mr. Cheney and Ms. Rice silently keep watch." or at least one civilized version of it. Movie critics often flog directors for not engaging with urgent contemporary matters like the current wars but when they do engage as several have tried to this year (“In the Valley of Elah ” “Rendition”) we complain that they’re not saying much of anything. Consider “Lions for Lambs” exhibit R  in this open case: It names the wars presents a handful of fictionalized main players from politicians to soldiers and drops words like “the people” and “Al Qaeda” and “propaganda.” It flashes photographs of George W. Bush Dick Cheney and Condoleezza Rice if without overtly naming names." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09holl.html
Khmer and Vietnamese with English subtitles) by Guy Jacobson and Mr. Moshe; director of photography Yaron Orbach; edited by Isabella Monteiro de Castro; music by Ton-That Thiet; produced by Nava Levin Mr. Jacobson Adi Ezroni and Mr. Moshe; released by Priority Films. At the Clearview 62nd and Broadway 1871 Broadway. Running time: 113 minutes." ” a documentary-fiction hybrid about sex trafficking in Cambodia. It’s just not the one the filmmakers want to tell." “Holly” continually douses its drama with the cold water of education. In Patrick (Ron Livingston) a numb American expat and smuggler the film has a fascinating protagonist: a man without country or comfort. Yet when he becomes improbably obsessed with rescuing a 12-year-old Vietnamese virgin (Thuy Nguyen) from the clutches of traffickers what could have been a gripping study of emotional resurrection devolves into a blurred odyssey of white guilt." Mr. Livingston performs with increasing intensity and motivational ambivalence. In his hands Patrick is an irretrievably lost soul as confused by his savior impulse as its beneficiary is." Virginie Ledoyen (Marie) Chris Penn (Freddie) Udo Kier (Klaus) and Thuy Nguyen (Holly)." “Holly” has a grubby authenticity that fails to compensate for slack plotting and a monotonous tone. Udo Kier is dependably sleazy in the thankless role of an unrepentant pedophile while the great Virginie Ledoyen is wasted as a human-rights worker whose only task is to remind us of the facts and figures of the under-age sex trade." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09fred.html
” Mr. Vaughn seems to be trying out a more audience-friendly mainstream persona something he can cultivate when he’s too old to play naughty. It doesn’t work partly because the film reeks partly because nice isn’t (yet) in his on-screen DNA. There’s a touch of the con man to many of his characters and it often feels as if he’s selling  something to someone. Here though he doesn’t seem to have conned even himself into thinking this movie a good idea. It’s no wonder when its most memorable scene finds Fred teaching an elf Willie (John Michael Higgins’s head Jorge Rodero’s   body) how to slow dance a task that involves the kind of intimate eye-to-crotch gazing not usually seen in Christmas movies." only to subsequently go their separate ways. Somehow Nicholas grew up to become Santa and Fred turned into a Chicago motormouth with pouchy eyes and a hot girl (Rachel Weisz) who in real life would chuck him along with her unflattering wardrobe." smiles are cracked as are mirthless jokes most at the expense of the shorter members of the cast. The director David Dobkin who did far better with “Wedding Crashers ” never settles into a coherent or workable groove trying on moods (breezy frantic maudlin) that never stick or develop. (It’s difficult to reconcile the film’s ugly alternately over-lighted and under-lighted photography with the cinematographer Remi Adefarasin’s professional work in “Elizabeth: The Golden Age.”)  The screenplay credited to Dan Fogelman feels similarly incoherent a confusion of shtick and schmaltz. The less said the better about the digital wizardry that sticks famous heads on nonfamous bodies Frankenstein-style. If you’ve ever wondered what the rapper Ludacris would look like if he were a dwarf now’s your chance." though one graced with welcome talent including Paul Giamatti and Miranda Richardson. (Here’s hoping these indie stalwarts pocketed decent  studio checks for keeping their gifts in idle.) Mr. Vaughn plays Fred Claus the disgruntled eldest brother of Nicholas Claus a k a Santa Claus a k a St. Nick a k a Mr. Giamatti wearing a fat suit and snowy clouds of hair and beard." Remi Adefarasin; edited by Mark Livolsi; music by Christophe Beck; production designer Allan Cameron; produced by Joel Silver Ms.  Nelson and Mr. Dobkin; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 107 minutes." it seemed possible that this was one guy who would just say no to Merry Christmas. Forget it: “Fred Claus” is a tacky would-be comedy about family dysfunction that fronts some Scrooge attitude only to dissolve into slobbering sentimentality and canned uplift. Neither here nor there the film is “Elf” without the goofy jokes Will Ferrell or heart “Bad Santa” without the smut Billy Bob Thornton or spleen." this lovely meter maid has to play  constant   kiss-and-make-up with Fred a hustler by inclination and verbal dexterity who talks big talks fast and tends to go belly up. Hustling ain’t easy which is how he ends up in the clink and shortly thereafter at the North Pole trying to make good on a loan from his generous baby brother. There to Fred’s astonishment he discovers that all the elves in Santa’s workshop are Chinese laborers who earn 25 cents an hour churning out lead-coated toys for the American market at backbreaking soul-crushing speed. Whoops! That’s the movie I was making in my head as the colors and shapes and the strings of words were arranged and rearranged from shot to shot scene to scene." Paul Giamatti (Santa Claus) Miranda Richardson (Annette Claus) John Michael Higgins (Willie) Elizabeth Banks (Charlene) Rachel Weisz (Wanda) Kathy Bates (Mother Claus) Kevin Spacey (Clyde) Ludacris (DJ Donnie) Bobb’e J. Thompson (Slam) and Jorge Rodero (Willie’s body)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09coca.html
but you may find yourself wishing Mr. Landes had taken a less passive approach and fleshed out some things he only hints at." ” Alejandro Landes’s documentary about the presidential campaign of Evo Morales in Bolivia seems to mirror the campaign itself: ragged bare-bones perhaps not entirely sure where it’s going. Hand-held cameras follow Mr. Morales and his supporters on bumpy roads and into remote villages recording his haircuts and his impromptu jump into a swimming hole in underwear and shirt." Mr. Morales shows he is as skilled in equivocation and evasion as any establishment politician. And these days nobody who routinely throws phrases like “death to the Yankees” into his speeches should be viewed as a genial teddy bear." unsophisticated leader of the coca-leaf growers wins the presidency in December 2005 with a combination of unpretentiousness honesty and grass-roots support." with English subtitles; director of photography Jorge Manrique Behrens; edited by Kate Taverna Mr. Manrique Behrens and Lorenzo Bombicci; music by Leo Heiblum and Jacobo Lieberman; produced by Julia Solomonoff and Mr. Landes; released by Cinema Tropical. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 94 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/09/movies/09chok.html
the writer and director Steve Barron’s drama “Choking Man” is set in and around a diner in Jamaica Queens." a pathologically shy nearly mute Ecuadorean dishwasher. Jorge has a crush on a Chinese-American waitress named Amy (likable underused Eugenia Yuan). He despises his co-worker a white ex-con named Jerry (Aaron Paul overdoing almost everything) who at first bullies Jorge and sexually harasses Amy then makes an about-face later in the movie and becomes the young woman’s suitor. Jorge’s boss the Greek-American Rick (Mandy Patinkin) is an amiable father figure who’s absent when his presence is needed most." Antoine Vivas-Denisov; edited by Todd Holmes and Jon Griggs; music by Nico Muhly; production designer Ethan Tobman; produced by Joshua Zeman Zachary Mortensen and Mr. Barron; released by International Film Circuit. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 85 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie is an encyclopedia of quirks. Mr. Barron’s worst idea is Jorge’s roommate an enigmatic Spanish speaker who keeps urging the hero toward violence. You keep expecting him to tell Jorge he has a beautiful mind and should join a fight club." Eugenia Yuan (Amy) Mandy Patinkin (Rick) Aaron Paul (Jerry) Kate Buddeke (Teri) and Philippe Brenninkmeyer (Germanic Man)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/08/movies/08ayle.html
chaotic improvisations by himself and his band mates. The solos on his landmark 1964 album “Spiritual Unity” are musical action paintings in which feeling dictates form." spaced-out eccentric who played like Charlie Parker trapped under something heavy. As the  bassist Gary Peacock one of many former Ayler band mates interviewed by the director puts it people either loved or hated Mr. Ayler’s music: “Nobody said ‘Ah he has his good points.’” A straightforward PBS-style documentary about Mr. Ayler would have seemed clueless. Thankfully Mr. Collin hasn’t made one." Mr. Collin repeats certain quotations as if they were signature riffs recurring in a tune. The most electrifying is a statement from Mr. Ayler confidently predicting the staying power of his music: “If people don’t like it now they will.”" produced and directed by Kasper Collin; director of photography Peter Palm; edited by Eva Hillstrom Patrick Austen and Mr. Collin. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 79 minutes. This film is not rated." to everyone’s astonishment earned himself a fan and a sometime patron) and ended in 1970 when he went missing for two and a half weeks then turned up floating in the East River." and black-and-white film snippets of the saxophonist standing against a blank wall and somewhat furtively looking into the camera as if daring us to connect with him." contradictory Christianity-derived spirituality into New Age hash. It gives short shrift to the women in Mr. Ayler’s life especially Mary Parks his final companion and de facto manager who has been vilified for building a wall between him and the world. (She spoke to Mr. Collin on the phone but refused to appear on camera.) And it waits too long to reveal that Mr. Ayler’s brother and sometime band mate the trumpeter Donald Ayler exhibited obsessive and abrasive behavior because he was psychotic. (He died on Oct. 21.)" a stint as an Army musician and a two-year sojourn in Northern Europe in the early ’60s that included exposure to the music of the free-jazz innovator Cecil Taylor." staging areas from which to mount improvisations: a montage of newsreel footage of bustling Stockholm thoroughfares circa 1960; blurry weirdly poetic details from snapshots and home movies; oft-repeated images of the white-bearded Ayler blowing his sax." “My Name Is Albert Ayler ” which opens today at the Anthology Film Archives. Named after one of his albums and built around snippets of audio interviews with Mr. Ayler it attempts and often achieves a fresh playful style that’s equally informed by jazz traditions and Mr. Ayler’s urge to shatter them." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/07/movies/07bloo.html
Mr. Majewski; edited by Eliot Ems Mr. Majewski and Norbert Rudzik; music by Mr. Majewski; production designer Mr. Majewski; released by International Film Circuit. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 100 minutes. This film is not rated." what we loosely call  experimental film tends to be banished to the fringes of festivals and out-of-the-way art houses. As a result the opportunities for mainstream audiences to experience the unconventional are tragically few." this haunting look at the nature of nurture uses the childhood memories of a traumatized young poet to explore themes and visuals ranging from the biblical to the baroque. Marshaling paternal abuse and maternal passivity into painterly dialogue-free scenes of domestic isolation the filmmaker creates an aesthetic of dysfunction that’s as beautiful as it is disturbing." Joanna Litwin Grzegorz Przybyl and Misia Rutkowska." ” “Glass Lips” contrasts natural sound — a gurgling stream a wailing infant — with unnatural behavior and meticulously controlled images with emotional anarchy. After a while  the film’s expressiveness becomes so hypnotic that it’s difficult not to make your own connections: the discovery that the gaping mouth of a blow-up doll resembles nothing so much as a silent scream no doubt says as much about me as it does about Mr. Majewski." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/movies/02stru.html
lovers colleagues and admirers. They are not identified in the course of the movie though some (Bono John Cusack Steve Buscemi Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers) are not hard to recognize. Mr. Temple gathers them around campfires with other less well-known people and by the time the metaphorical significance of the fires is explained late in the film it’s clear that they represent Mr. Strummer’s egalitarian bohemian spirit." Ben Cole; edited by Mark Reynolds Tobias Zaldua and Niven Howie; produced by Amanda Temple Anna Campeau and Alan Moloney; released by IFC First Take. In Manhattan at the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 124 minutes. This film is not rated." serving as literal illustrations of the story. But just as often they provide a kind of free-associative context reminding us that an individual’s life is made up not only of experiences and events but also of ideas dreams and possibilities. So while we are treated to marvelous and rare footage of the Clash in rehearsal and Mr. Strummer’s previous bands in performance we also sample news video and snippets of the cartoon version of “Animal Farm.”" John Lydon and the Ramones — but the band was decisive in infusing its raw raging energy with a sense of ethical integrity and political commitment. The heart of “Joe Strummer” is the narrative of the band’s rise triumph and eventual unraveling a tale told by survivors participants hangers-on and fans and animated by performances that have lost little of their immediacy or force in the intervening years." like most rock ’n’ roll biographies one of self-invention. Joe Strummer was born John Graham Mellor. His father was a diplomat and Joe’s youth was more cosmopolitan and more privileged than his scruffy proletarian musical persona might suggest. An art school dropout in the best British rock ’n’ roll tradition he spent the early 1970s as a hippie vagabond taking the name Woody (as in Guthrie) and bumming and busking around London and other English cities. He was part of the West London squatter scene and the leader of a band called the 101ers when punk rock arrived." an able and tireless chronicler of the pop life “Joe Strummer” assembles clips and interviews into a fast-moving timeline. Mr. Strummer’s voice captured from radio broadcasts and old conversations provides narration and companionship. That his presence is limited to audio and archival material provides a sad and subtle reminder of his absence of the void left by his sudden death at 50 from a heart attack in 2002." ” it may have been record company hype but when I was a teenager there was probably no band that mattered more to me. The idealism the earnest anger the democratic sometimes clumsy way of mixing styles and sounds — I am almost as susceptible to it now as I was at 15. This is all by way of disclosure: It’s likely that I would have been stirred and moved by “Joe Strummer: The Future Is Unwritten ” even if it were the straightforward VH1-ready rock star biography it might at first appear to be. The film however is much more than a biography of the Clash’s guitarist and lead singer: It’s history criticism philosophy and politics played fast and loud." the band’s other guitarist and creative force. Once the Clash has broken up in the mid-1980s there is a long denouement — for me I guess it’s called adulthood — during which both Mr. Strummer’s career and Mr. Temple’s film lose a bit of steam. But the waning of punk’s heat leaves behind a surprising afterglow and allows you to appreciate Joe Strummer’s warmth." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/movies/02shar.html
thematic elements language and some smoking." ” the Discovery Channel’s “Shark Week” and the like; they’re of a piece with Mr. Stewart’s comments about the creatures’ intelligence and biological complexity and his insistence that most shark bites are exploratory rather than aggressive." pointless account of Mr. Stewart’s hospitalization with a blood infection and its numerous shots of the hard-bodied young director posing like Tiger Beat’s answer to Jacques Cousteau. (The film’s PG rating should include a special warning for parents of tween children: “Caution: Images of Mr. Stewart in a Speedo may induce puberty.”)" sensitive martyr." only to be arrested later for attempted murder — a reversal for which the film blames the influence of Taiwanese mobsters operating illegal shark fin processing plants in Costa Rica. The intrepid Mr. Stewart violates house arrest to capture hidden-camera images of plant interiors and shots of severed fins drying on a warehouse roof." a Greenpeace-style group led by the  activist Paul Watson. The most tense parts of “Sharkwater” show Mr. Watson’s crew patrolling the waters of Costa Rica for shark finners at the government’s request." produced and directed by Rob Stewart; director of photography Mr. Stewart; edited by Michael Clarke Rik Morden and Jeremy Stuart; music by Jeff Rona; released by Sharkwater Productions.  In Manhattan at the Village VII 66 Third Avenue at 11th Street East Village. Running time: 89 minutes." known as finning is illegal in many countries. But Mr. Stewart says the  governments that pass anti-finning laws rarely enforce them because of staff deficiencies and the influence of organized crime which controls the global shark fin trade." butchery and abandonment of sharks shot and edited to evoke the horrors of the Middle Passage. Brazenly melodramatic and furiously angry “Sharkwater” aims to be nothing less than the “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” of aquatic conservation: propaganda with teeth." which in turn feeds on plankton whose biological processes absorb carbon dioxide. “Sharkwater” argues that the extinction of the shark — a creature whose population has been depleted by 90 percent in the past 30 years — could unbalance the ocean’s ecosystem and accelerate the process of global warming." the animal is being eradicated mainly to feed Asian consumers’ craving for shark fin soup a $300-a-bowl status symbol whose popularity is fueled by the widespread demonstrably false belief that sharks don’t get sick. Sharks are harvested via long-line fishing a technique that stretches fishing line over tens of miles of ocean. Fishermen then hack off the sharks’ fins and dump them in the water to die." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/movies/02mart.html
broken boy and in the forthcoming “Grace Is Gone” his working-stiff widower grapples with trying to break the bad news to his girls. In each movie the beloved is already out of the picture which allows Mr. Cusack  instantly to take possession of the screen with his trademark sensitivity. Nice guys rule and don’t you forget it." based on the short story by David Gerrold; director of photography Robert Yeoman; edited by Bruce Green; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer Hugo Luczyc-Wyhowski; produced by David Kirschner Corey Sienega and Ed Elbert; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 108 minutes." Amanda Peet (Harlee) Sophie Okonedo (Sophie) Oliver Platt (Jeff) Joan Cusack (Liz) Bobby Coleman (Dennis) and Richard Schiff (Lefkowitz)." who arrives in a cardboard box literally marked “Fragile” and “Handle With Care ” and who comes equipped with trembling lips and a load of cute. But Mr. Cusack is not one to relinquish the spotlight without a fight. Like W. C. Fields he takes the challenge presented by animals and children seriously. And so he bobs weaves weeps plays with the volume kisses the girl (bashfully naturally) stutters and smiles tucking his chin just enough to make those dark pooling eyes look even more inviting. Come on in the water’s just fine." “Martian Child” is 100 percent goo. There’s nothing wrong with the setup — man meets boy surrenders heart — but there’s little right about the delivery. Menno Meyjes who last directed Mr. Cusack in “Max ”  appears never to have met a visual cliché he didn’t want to embrace an emotion he didn’t want to milk or an obvious idea he didn’t want to broadcast. He lets Mr. Cusack cut loose and go lazy while the support team (Joan Cusack Oliver Platt Amanda Peet) smilingly basks in the star’s glow. You might think that Bobby Coleman wouldn’t stand a chance but this kid bats his lashes like Joan Fontaine. The audience wept; I just cried uncle." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/movies/02love.html
Rei Dan (Kayo) Takashi Sasano (Tokuhei) Nenji Kabayashi (Sakunosuke Higuchi) Toshiki Ayata (Kanjuro Takigawa) and Nobuto Okamoto (Togo Hatano)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Yamada Emiko Hiramatsu and Ichiro Yamamoto based on a story by Shuhei Fujisawa; director of photography Mutsuo Naganuma; edited by Iwao Ishii; music by Isao Tomita; production designer Mitsuo Degawa; produced by Takeo Hisamoto Hiroshi Fukasawa and Mr. Yamamoto; released by Funimation Film. At the Imaginasian Theater 239 East 59th Street between Second and Third Avenues. Running time: 121 minutes." a little swordplay and a lot of injustice." ” this is a love story in which a low-caste samurai struggles against circumstance to please both his heart and his conscience. This time the hero is Shinnojo (Takuya Kimura) a young food taster stricken by blindness after eating bad shellfish intended for his clan lord. Faced with the loss of his annual stipend Shinnojo contemplates suicide while his coldhearted relatives secretly push his adoring wife Kayo (Rei Dan) into the arms of an influential samurai on whose gratitude their survival may depend." Mr. Yamada has used the trilogy (based on stories by Shuhei Fujisawa) to explore a richer more sober and less sentimental view of his country’s history. His protagonists are aware of the unfairness of the caste system and are beginning to rebel; when they fight it’s with reluctance and because they have no other choice. By staging these confrontations in symbolically decaying locations — a rotted house in “The Twilight Samurai ” an abandoned stable here — he reminds us that the codes and conventions of feudalism may be punishing but they are also impermanent." ” the final episode in Yoji Yamada’s samurai trilogy maintains the grace and resonance of its predecessors as well as their focus on class inequality." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/movies/02gang.html
without mercy or remorse takes down one human being after another many of whom like the addicts he supplied were as helpless as that burning man. By rights this match should also ignite a tragedy and you can almost feel Mr. Scott trying to coax the material away from its generic trappings toward something rarefied something like Francis Ford Coppola’s 1972 definitive American story “The Godfather.” He comes closest to that goal with the suggestion that the lethal pursuit of the American dream is not restricted to one or two families — the Corleones say or the Sopranos — but located in a network of warring tribes that help to obscure the larger war of all against all." to neighborhoods — doesn’t make for entertainment. And so despite Mr. Scott’s talent for trouble and shadows (the cinematographer Harris Savides bleeds all the bright color from this world) he soon loosens his grip on Lucas. He lingers over the garish surfaces and violence and the exotic locales where Lucas found a steady supply of pure heroin. He quotes “Super Fly ” fires up Bobby Womack samples Richard M. Nixon and tosses in a pinch of black power rhetoric to mask the rot. He distracts and entertains until the divide between his seriousness of purpose and the false glamour that wafts around American gangsters and invariably trivializes their brutality becomes too wide to breach." ” knocking angling to be let in. Based in rough outline on the flashy rise and fall of a powerful 1970s New York drug lord Frank Lucas the film has been built for importance with a brand-name director Ridley Scott and two major stars Denzel Washington as Lucas and Russell Crowe as Richie Roberts the New Jersey cop who brings him down. It’s a seductive package crammed with all the on-screen and off-screen talent that big-studio money can buy and filled with old soul and remixed funk that evoke the city back in the day when heroin turned poor streets white and sometimes red." the plot takes the shape of a simple braid with Lucas’s and Roberts’s stories serving as individual narrative strands that become more and more tightly plaited. Complicating this simple at times overly mechanical back-and-forth design is a third player with a smaller strand a corrupt New York detective Trupo (Josh Brolin in a knockout performance) who shakes down Lucas and other larcenous types. The baddest bad man in town a thug’s thug Trupo wears his power as confidently as the long black leather coat he whips on for battle. He hassles Lucas who hates him in turn and openly indulges his contempt for Roberts because the other cop is honest which means he’s a threat to Trupo and his kind." Mr. Scott loves his bad guy too much. And by turning Lucas into a figure who seduces instead of repels an object of directorial fetishism and a token of black resistance however hollow he encourages us to submit as well. Part of this is structural and economic: blood and nihilism are always better sells than misery and hopelessness. Yet there’s also a historical dimension because when Lucas strolls down a fast-emptying Harlem street after putting a bullet into another man’s head and the camera pulls back for the long view you are transported into the realm of myth. Once another gunman or the director might have taken direct aim at Lucas. But the world belongs to gangsters now not cowboys." which is as much part of the movie’s allure as its problem. Mr. Scott doesn’t escape the contradiction that bedevils almost every Hollywood movie about gangsters which cry shame shame as they parade their stars crank the soul and showcase the foxy ladies the swank digs and rides. Mr. Washington obviously enjoys sinking into villainy but he never finds the lower depths. There’s little of the frightening menace the actor brought to “Training Day ” where you see the pleasure his character derives from his sadism. Even when Lucas goes ballistic beating a man to pulp the film tosses in a laugh about the proper way to clean a bloodied rug." his jaw thrust forward as aggressively as his pelvis wears the white hat while the silky smooth-moving smooth-talking Mr. Washington wears the black. They’re irresistible though neither possesses the movie because each occupies a separate if parallel story line. Mr. Washington has the more developed and dynamic role which he inhabits easily whether flashing his wolfish grin or draining the affect from Lucas’s face to show the soulless operator beneath the swagger and suit. Lucas’s rival Nicky Barnes (Cuba Gooding Jr. in a sharp small turn) wore the pimp threads and fedoras the size of manhole covers (he also read Machiavelli). Lucas dressed like the businessman he believed himself to be and was." as its title announces and Steven Zaillian’s screenplay occasionally trumpets there’s plenty of blue in the mix too worn by some of New York’s very un-finest. Mr. Lucas was among the city’s most notorious underworld hustlers but one of the film’s points (at times you could call it a message) is that he was just doing what everyone with ambition flair and old-fashioned American entrepreneurial spirit was doing including cops: getting a piece of the action. His piece just happened to be bigger than most stretching across Harlem and snaking into other neighborhoods into alleys and apartments where someone with ready cash and a hungry vein was always aching to get high." based on the New York magazine article “The Return of Superfly ” by Mark Jacobson; director of photography Harris Savides; edited by Pietro Scalia; music by Marc Streitenfeld; production designer Arthur Max; produced by Brian Grazer and Mr. Scott; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 158 minutes." but when his material has skewed too light too frivolous the gravity and purpose etched into each one of his meticulous beautiful images have also helped sink films. He couldn’t make an ironic gesture if he wanted to or toss off an idea or a shot. Everything counts even if it shouldn’t. (Such was the case with his and Mr. Crowe’s last collaboration their 2006 Provençal folly “A Good Year ” a soufflé made with lead.) Mr. Scott makes the case for his and his new film’s seriousness in its opener which shows Lucas tossing a match at a man who has been doused with gasoline and then pumping bullets into the burning screaming figure." Russell Crowe (Richie Roberts) Chiwetel Ejiofor (Huey Lucas) Cuba Gooding Jr. (Nicky Barnes) Josh Brolin (Detective Trupo) Ted Levine (Lou Toback) Armand Assante (Dominic Cattano) John Ortiz (Javier J. Rivera) John Hawkes (Freddie Spearman) RZA (Moses Jones) Lymari Nadal (Eva) Yul Vazquez (Alfonse Abruzzo) Ruby Dee (Mama Lucas) Idris Elba (Tango) Carla Gugino (Laurie Roberts) Joe Morton (Charlie Williams) Ruben Santiago-Hudson (Doc) Roger Guenveur Smith (Nate) Roger Bart (United States attorney) Chuck Cooper (private doctor) and Linda Powell (social worker)." popping all but jumping in anticipation of another hit. Sometimes the needle slides into a clean arm though every so often the camera comes uncomfortably close as a spike jabs into a suppurating wound. You could call these images metaphoric something about the oozing bleeding body of the exploited underclass but mostly they’re just graphic evidence of the damage done. Despite the intermittent nod to someone nodding out and even dying this isn’t about the suffering of addicts or of those forced to watch their neighborhoods perish alongside them. It’s about good guys and bad a classic story of white hats and black squaring off at the corral at 116th Street and Eighth Avenue." bloody gun violence." wherein a self-styled Horatio Alger type thwarted by racial prejudice and born into poverty in North Carolina grows up to become a powerful captain of the illegal-drug industry. Lucas pulls himself up by his bootstraps a gun tucked into his belt and becomes a folk hero (and a pop culture idol) who doles out free turkeys to the very community he helps enslave with narcotics fear and despair. He gathers his relatives around to help him modeling himself after the Mafia families with whom he does business. He builds a gang but only so it can serve his personal desires." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/movies/02fat.html
“Fat Girls” turns ugly in a farcical sequence in which Sabrina gets stuck inside a Volkswagen Beetle while making out with Rudy. Even on the crudest finger-pointing level it isn’t funny." who is being brought up in a trailer by lesbian parents and her boyfriend Rudy (Robin De Jesus) a Cuban refugee adopted by an African-American family. When a guidance counselor summons Rodney to her office she reacts with undisguised contempt to his stated career goal of being a Broadway star." Ashley Fink (Sabrina) Jonathan Caouette (Mr. Cox) Robin De Jesus (Rudy) Deborah Theaker (Judy) Joe Flaten (Joey) and Ellen Albertini Dow (Mildred)." language and some drug and alcohol use all involving teenagers." Vincent Wrenn; edited by Karl Kimbrough; production designer Lynn Moon; produced by Mr. Christian and Kim Fishman; released by Here! Films and Regent Releasing. Running time: 83 minutes." directed and co-produced by Ash Christian a 22-year-old Texan filmmaker of some promise. Mr. Christian also plays Rodney Miller the self-aware virginal sad sack who narrates the story and who by the end of the film has developed some badly needed self-esteem. To Rodney “fat girl” is a catchall term for a teenage pariah; it is he says “a state of mind.”" either of which might have yielded a more satisfying film." a handsome insolent new kid in town from England who gives him his first real kiss and takes him to a gay bar where he discovers one of his teachers (Jonathan Caouette the director of “Tarnation”) performing in drag. As a lark Joey agrees to be Rodney’s date to the high school graduation dance (which for some reason is never referred to as a prom). In the anticlimactic dance scene which cries out to be a confrontational set piece nothing much happens." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/movies/02darf.html
uprooted from their villages and living in sprawling refugee camps where food is scarce tell of rapes and killings. Some corpses are shown along with the charred remains of villages but the horrors inflicted by the government-sponsored Arab-speaking militias known as the Janjaweed are not shown." however the actor who first became aware of the crisis while making the 2004 movie “Hotel Rwanda ” has found his activist voice and written (with John Prendergast) a book “Not on Our Watch: The Mission to End Genocide in Darfur and Beyond.” In the documentary he is shown with a group that includes George Clooney on a mission to Egypt which has close ties with Sudan." a mother whose village was destroyed by Janjaweed militias joins rebel forces and wields a gun. “I’ve learned to fight ” she says. “It’s very natural. It’s like drinking water.”" who grew up in Argentina during the military dictatorship when thousands were tortured and “disappeared ” saw how everything changed when the generals were prosecuted for mass murder. He sees the situation in Sudan as analogous: “It’s a bureaucracy committing crimes by public servants.” He admits that the movement for justice and the prosecution of those responsible has proceeded at a frustratingly slow pace. But eventually he says “the truth will prevail.”" the official voice of the Sudanese government belongs to Abdalmahmood Abdalhaleem Mohamad Sudan’s ambassador to the United Nations who scoffs at the notion of a genocidal campaign against the people of Darfur. The conflict is an internal matter he insists and has to do with the apportioning of scarce resources. Sudan has refused to comply with the International Criminal Court’s recent arrest warrants for Ahmad Harun Sudan’s minister of the interior and Ali Kushayb a leader of the Janjaweed militias for crimes against humanity." 200 000 people had been killed and 2.5 million displaced from their rural villages in Darfur. Recalling his first visit to a refugee camp two years ago Mr. Cheadle says his initial reaction was a wave of hopelessness." using his celebrity and Mr. Moreno-Ocampo wielding the limited power of the court which the Sudan government does not recognize are two of the more than half a dozen voices in the film which examines the situation from multiple perspectives. What “Darfur Now” offers is a collective vision of actions small and large taken on many fronts to end the crisis. The movie is a quiet methodical call to action." Sudan’s largest trading partner which imports 60 percent of Sudan’s oil is touched on but its implications are barely mentioned. A movie can instantly humanize an international crisis by showing the faces of the suffering. But it can’t impart the hard information and background with the efficiency of a written text." the chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court in The Hague is an equally eloquent commentator on the question of how to respond and on the need for the same kind of planetary consciousness that surrounds the issue of global warming. “Most people care about family and neighborhood but not about the world ” he laments." ” he says. “You see that kids really are just kids. You think maybe their journey is in some way tied into my journey on this planet. That’s you and that’s me.”" Kirsten Johnson; edited by Edgar Burcksen and Leonard Feinstein; music by Graeme Revell; produced by Cathy Schulman Don Cheadle and Mark Jonathan Harris; released by Warner Independent Pictures and Participant Productions. Running time: 99 minutes." progress inches along on several fronts. Adam Sterling a U.C.L.A. student works tirelessly to get a bill passed that will force California to divest from companies that benefit Sudan and with much fanfare Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signs it. Pablo Recalde an Ecuadorian established a program that transports food by convoy to the starving people in West Darfur. It is dangerous work because the convoys are frequently attacked." ” Theodore Braun’s absorbing documentary about the atrocities in Darfur the westernmost region of Sudan Don Cheadle poses a fundamental question facing moviegoers attending a film about African strife: How do you respond to an event as difficult to understand as a government-sponsored mass murder of part of a country’s civilian population?" however. Although the roots of the Darfur killings which the American government has labeled genocide are examined they are not thoroughly analyzed." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/movies/02conf.html
the Hollywood Boulevard version of the Man of Steel one of many costumed performers — panhandlers really — profiled in Matt Ogens’s documentary “Confessions of a Superhero.”" and here are its casualties. The empathetic tone draws you in though and some of the details are devastating: Superman’s ashtray overflowing with stubbed-out Marlboros; a street cop explaining which side of the Walk of Fame is considered private property and which is public; a snapshot of Wonder Woman reaching into the driver’s-side window of a car while parking attendants ogle her Amazon posterior." but he accepts tips." son of the actress Sandy Dennis is a former crystal meth addict who owns $90 000 worth of Superman memorabilia and dates a psychologist. Wonder Woman played by Jennifer Gehrt is a homecoming queen from small-town Tennessee. The Incredible Hulk a k a Joe McQueen is an African-American North Carolina native who is tired of kids asking him why the Hulk is black. Batman a k a Maxwell Allen is a volatile ex-thug who wears his Caped Crusader outfit to therapy." Charlie Gruet; produced by Jamie Patricof Mr. Gruet and Mr. Ogens; released by Arts Alliance America. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 92 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/movies/02bee.html
a durable if sometimes risky source of humor in American pop culture give “Bee Movie” an extra fillip of comic vitality — the hint of a sting if you will in an otherwise soft and fuzzy entertainment." er the birds and the bees." thrilling bee’s-eye tour of New York from Central Park flora to the surface of a tennis ball to the inside of a speeding car — that show off the latest computer animation techniques. But most of the film’s creative energy is verbal rather than visual and semimature rather than strictly juvenile." the alliteratively named hero of “The Graduate ” a film that “Bee Movie” cites in a few amusing scenes. Not that Barry has an affair with a middle-aged mama bee (all bees are children of the queen a biological fact the film notes only in passing). Instead he flies even farther from the nest so to speak falling in love with an actual human being a Manhattan florist named Vanessa who speaks in the irresistibly sweet voice of Renée Zellweger." with a purpose known only to the collective brain of the hive. The most genuinely apian aspect of “Bee Movie ” DreamWorks’ new animated movie about well bees is that it spends a lot of its short running time buzzing happily around sniffing out fresh jokes wherever they may bloom. There is a plot — the usual big elaborate story with the usual important messages about saving the planet living together in interspecies harmony and believing in yourself — but it’s a little beside the point. The real fun is the insect shtick." “Bee Movie” makes overt a conceit that is usually left implicit in animal-kingdom cartoons namely that species is the cartoon version of ethnicity. Barry and his tribe are not just bees. They identify as “Beeish” — I’m sure “Benson” was something else back in the old country — and worry about their children dating wasps. On his travels Barry meets a mosquito who speaks in the voice of Chris Rock and who refers to his despised and misunderstood brethren as “bloods.”" Renée Zellweger (Vanessa) Matthew Broderick (Adam Flayman) John Goodman (Layton T. Montgomery) Chris Rock (Mooseblood) Patrick Warburton (Ken) Larry King (Bee Larry King) Ray Liotta (himself) and Sting (himself)." Spike Feresten Barry Marder and Andy Robin; head of character animation Fabio Lignini; edited by Nick Fletcher; music by Rupert Gregson-Williams; production designer Alex McDowell; produced by Mr. Seinfeld and Christina Steinberg; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 100 minutes." the leading man (and one of the screenwriters and producers) is Jerry Seinfeld whose sitcom almost a decade off the network air lives on in syndication and in the endless recycling of memorable one-liners by a certain type of pathetic Gen-Xer. (Not me though. I’m the complete opposite of every film critic you’ve ever met. I’m the master of my domain.)" Mr. Seinfeld does not demonstrate great emotional range. His comfort zone as a performer ranges from peeved to perplexed to moderately psyched with occasional bursts of obvious exaggeration to indicate that he is at least aware that more intense states of feeling exist. But his detachment works in the movie’s favor by defusing its sentimental impulses." a young bee who has reached the stage in his accelerated bug lifestyle when he must choose a career. The hive where he lives is a highly regimented place where the bees conditioned by 27 million years of evolution work without a break in the same job for their whole lives. Visually this world resembles a sweet sunny corporate version of Fritz Lang’s “Metropolis.”" and that it is harvested from captive bees held in smoky shoddy fake hives he sues the human race going after some of its notorious bee abusers. These include Ray Liotta who sells his own brand of honey and Sting whose name is obviously offensive to bees. (Both celebrities make cameo voice appearances as does Larry King playing a character called Bee Larry King. It’s funnier than it sounds. Or maybe it’s exactly as funny as it sounds.)" Adam (Matthew Broderick) accepts his drone future as part of the natural order of things but Barry is a maverick an individualist yearning to break out of the conformist world of the social insects." exemplified in the mighty “Shrek” franchise (and imitated by would-be rivals at Sony and Fox) is to charm the children with cute creatures and slapstick action while jabbing at the grown-ups with soft pseudosophisticated pop- cultural satire. “Bee Movie ” directed by Simon J. Smith and Steve Hickner and animated by several hundred industrious drones pushes this strategy almost to the point of dispensing with the kid stuff altogether." the prospect of romance between a bee and a person raises some potentially awkward not to say physiologically outlandish questions. But of course you’re not supposed to think about it. The moral of the story — one of them anyway — is that we and the bees are interdependent and that we should respect their hard work." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/27/movies/27saw.html
the “Saw” franchise took a novel if distasteful idea and basically tortured it to death. While the clever low-budget execution of the original’s Darwinian premise — kill or be killed —  commands a queasy respect its creators James Wan and Leigh Whannell should have rejoiced in their unexpected success and moved on." however had other plans spawning a host of imitators and now “Saw IV ” bloody proof that Jigsaw (Tobin Bell) may be dead but his well of corporeal abuses has yet to run dry. Opening with an unwarranted shot of Jigsaw’s genitals — laid out like the rest of him on a mortuary slab — the movie wastes no time plunging us into his autopsy." death is only a minor obstacle to Jigsaw whose flayed stomach coughs up his trademark tape-recorded guide to dank dungeons and moldy motel rooms filled with elaborately trussed victims. Appearing frequently in flashback — as Lord help us an expectant father — Mr. Bell is more visible in this episode mask-free and enjoying the opportunity to flex his thespian muscles." however is the “Gilmore Girls” alumnus Scott Patterson who as the onetime proprietor of Luke’s Diner and now a hapless F.B.I. profiler can only be wondering why his eatery ever had to close." then add the inconceivable." ” mutters a technician and I would have to agree." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26lync.html
” which was shot in video and Super-8 film and will be shown in a digital format reveals little obviously solid about its subject. We learn that he was born in Missoula Mont. in 1946 but nothing of his family his loves his wives or his children. He appears fond of the actress Laura Dern whom he calls Tidbit and who starred in “Inland Empire” and other of his features including “Blue Velvet” and “Wild at Heart.”" Morten Soborg and Jason S; music by Sune Martin; produced by Jon Nguyen Jason S Brynn McQuade and Soren Larsen; released by Absurda. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 82 minutes.  This film is not rated." ” which comes across as more devotional than interrogative or searching. Too many nonfiction works try to obscure their partisanship through formal devices meant to suggest some kind of journalistic-type detachment like voice-of-God narration or the presentation of two (though rarely more) sides of an issue never mind the documentary filmmaker Emile de Antonio’s shrewd observation that “with any cut at all objectivity fades away.”" at 82  fast minutes “Lynch” gives us too little: too little of that struggle to wrest art from cloudy uncertainty too little of the artist-doubter himself. On his beautiful image-  and text-filled Web site about the making of this movie (davidlynchdoc2007.blogspot.com) the video’s director reveals that he shot for more than two years an impressive stretch especially in view of those documentaries that speed through topics as quickly as possible. (Some of the Web site’s contents would also make nice DVD extras.) Here too we see the struggle to create in the video director’s copious notes about Mr. Lynch: “Ask him what he wants to talk about. Ask him what he feels is the best way to approach this film. Question him.”" as if it were a faithful dog — that makes the movie so sweet and so appealing. It’s like watching a schoolgirl crush unfold through a glass darkly." a woman who might indeed be Eurasian and a small shrieking monkey all show up in Mr. Lynch’s most recent feature the feverishly brilliant and nightmarish “Inland Empire.” In many respects “Lynch ” an expressionistic and minor portrait of the artist works as a footnote to that 2006 work; it would make a great DVD extra. It shows us Mr. Lynch at work prepping and shooting and cajoling and sometimes cursing his movie crew. He helps paint the floor of one set and even takes a broom to Hollywood Boulevard where part of “Inland Empire” was shot. He also directs the actors to whom he doles out somewhat cryptic instructions and thoughts notably “You are solid.”" ” though given his access — his gender is about all I can confirm — it’s clear he enjoys a trusting relationship with his subject. Mr. Lynch may shy away from dispensing the usual documentary revelations but he fearlessly and openly voices the worries that surface during the making of “Inland Empire.” On several occasions during production he actually confesses that he’s not sure what he’s doing which may reassure  those who thought the same while watching “Inland Empire.” Most movies about moviemaking emphasize the process and the personalities; this one shows us the artist battling with demon doubt and actively engaged in the struggle of creation." all of whom seem young and scrupulously attentive. They facilitate his genius and listen to his stories one of which involves a youthful attempt to puncture a dead gas-inflated cow like a balloon. Sometimes one of those assistants presumably procures a monkey." ” a feature-length video visit with the director David Lynch will largely depend on your views of his work and whether you think there’s something instructive and characteristically wonderful and weird about him telling an assistant “I want a one-legged 16-year-old girl.” It says something about the unflappable nature of his employees or their familiarity with his desires that the assistant doesn’t appear startled by this request or his ensuing demands for “a Eurasian” and “a pet monkey.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26devi.html
dark room somewhere in the  diamond district of Manhattan. “The world is an evil place ” he declares with the authority of someone who has seen and done plenty of bad things. “Some people make money from it and some people are destroyed by it.”" kids." ” directed by Sidney Lumet from a script by Kelly Masterson is a chronicle of destruction — physical spiritual and moral. That most of the victims and most of the perpetrators are members of a single family gives the story some of the suffocating fatalism of an ancient tragedy. But the workings of fate figure far less in the narrative than bad choices and unlucky accidents. The evil in this world arises not out of any grand metaphysical principle but rather from petty permanent features of the human character: greed envy stupidity vanity. There are no demons on display just small sad ordinary people. The filmmakers rigorously tally the results of their sins minor lapses made monstrous by the failure of love and the corruption of ambition. Simple familiar desires — for money sex status respect — end in murder." that Gina is sleeping with Hank and that aside from their affair Hank’s shrunken life includes a furious ex-wife (Amy Ryan) a young daughter and a collection of nervous tics. He is weak and indecisive —  “a baby” to both Andy and Charles — and probably the last person you would trust to carry out a robbery. If you gave him a quarter to feed the meter you’d end up with a parking ticket and a stream of pathetic apologies." indeed is where the story begins with sex providing a teasing tawdry prologue. A robbery at a suburban jewelry store shatters the quiet of a Saturday morning with gunfire breaking glass and the squealing tires of a getaway car. We will witness this crime a few more times from different points of view as Mr. Lumet backs up and goes over it again drawing out its every consequence and implication." whose background was not so different from Mr. Lumet’s was dismissive of movies that seemed overly dark or despairing. “There wasn’t a  single decent human being in the whole movie ” he used to complain. He might not have found any in “Before the Devil Knows You’re Dead ” but he would also have recognized the humanism that saves this harsh tale from nihilism. The screen may be full of losers liars killers and thieves but behind the camera is a mensch." involuted world of this movie feels. Secondary and tertiary characters — Gina;  Bobby’s wife Chris (Aleksa Palladino);   his thuggish brother-in-law Dex  (Michael Shannon);   that old man in the diamond district — do much more than carry the plot forward. Every scene has a sharp gamy vitality even when experienced from a different angle and with a new significance for the second or third time." or rather everything done well. Even the overwrought performances — Mr. Finney’s growls Mr. Hawke’s twitches — have integrity and conviction. This is a melodrama after all and its lifeblood is in the manic acting just as surely as it is in the plaintive horns of Carter Burwell’s score." who has been directing movies for 50 of his 83 years has the wisdom to leave the answer mainly to his actors. Andy and Hank are not explained dissected or excused. They speak their lines and carry out their actions and by the time the film is over we know them inside and out." who enlisted his younger brother Hank (Ethan Hawke) to carry it out. The dead body on the sidewalk belongs to Bobby Lasorda (Brian F. O’Byrne) a small-time hood Hank recruited for the dirty work. The saleswoman bleeding on the floor is Nanette Hanson (Rosemary Harris) Andy and Hank’s mother and the owner with their father Charles (Albert Finney) of the store her sons decided to hold up." a tough New York diamond cutter and his wife moved out to Westchester where they raised three kids (Hank and Andy have a sister) and ran a nice little business. How that modest little dream begat the nightmare of Hank and Andy’s violent fall is an intriguing blank space a latter-day Theodore Dreiser novel lurking in the shadows of an updated Jim Thompson noir." ” “Dog Day Afternoon ” “Prince of the City ” “Q & A” — were realist fables often based on true stories and always full of dense local knowledge. “Before the Devil Knows You’re Dead” is relentlessly focused on the terrible events of a few days but as it zigzags back and forth in time it takes in a larger longer story a history of upward mobility and family displacement." he tends to overestimate his intelligence and underestimate his desperation. He is a cold shallow angry man one of the least likable guys Mr. Hoffman a specialist in acutely observed male unpleasantness has ever played. Andy bullies Hank mercilessly lies to his employers and seems to experience minimal remorse after his perfect crime goes horribly awry. And yet while never for a moment soliciting our empathy Mr. Hoffman makes us care about this man the scale of whose ethical failures gives him a kind of negative grandeur. Besides his self-hatred makes our disapproval seem a bit redundant." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26with.html
Idaho; Chicago; Dallas; Los Angeles; Minneapolis;  San Francisco; and Washington. Directed by Steven Sawalich; written by Bret McKinney Mark Andrew Olsen and Kelly Kennemer; director of photography Irek Hartowicz; edited by Tim Alverson; music by James T. Sale; production designer Craig Stearns; produced by Brett Donowho and Mr. Sawalich; released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures. Running time: 93 minutes." Melissa George (Christine) Michael Sheen (Art Honneyman) Yul Vázquez (Mike Stolz) Hector Elizondo (Ben Padrow) and Rebecca De Mornay (Richard’s Mom)." and Mr. Pimentel’s relationships with his best friends — Art Honneyman (Michael Sheen) a puckish man with cerebral palsy who uses a wheelchair and Mike Stolz (Yul Vázquez) a hot-tempered profanely funny fellow vet  — feel lived-in and real." and some drug content." work ethic and independent spirit. But he fails to illuminate Mr. Pimentel’s anger and melancholy qualities that the film credits with spurring his alcoholism destroying his marriage to a hippie-swinger-turned-domestic-martyr named Christine (Melissa George) and fueling his greatest accomplishments (including the writing of  a California State guideline for dealing with  disabled  job applicants and agitating on behalf of the Americans With Disabilities Act)." by Steven Sawalich and its screenplay credited to Bret McKinney Mark Andrew Olsen and Kelly Kennemer are annoyingly unimaginative. When the screen fills with shots of soldiers in helicopters scored to “We’ve Got to Get Out of This Place ” you may be inclined to agree." “Music Within” is a biography  of Richard Pimentel (Ron Livingston) a debating champion who suffered severe hearing damage   in Vietnam then reinvented himself as an activist for the handicapped." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26unto.html
the Department of Justice and President Jimmy Carter saw the article Mr. Barnes’s days as a free man were numbered and before long he was in prison. But the nickname nonetheless remains apt since Mr. Barnes interviewed extensively for “Mr. Untouchable ” seems untouched by remorse regret or second thoughts." rolling over on his underlings his partners and even the mother of his children once it became clear that he could no longer run his business from the penitentiary. The survivors express shock and betrayal — is there no honor among thieves? — but Mr. Barnes just laughs the mirthless chuckle of a true capitalist hustler who will use anyone criminal lawyer or documentary filmmaker to serve his own interests." though it duly includes testimony from police officers prosecutors and journalists who covered the crime beat in those bad old New York days — how filmmakers seem to miss them — takes a tolerant even admiring view of its subject. Old photographs show him as a stylish smiling fixture of the social scene. In the present-day interviews his face is shadowed (he has been a protected government witness for many years) and he sits at a boardroom table like a corporate chief executive. The camera zooms in on his hands noting the heavy gold watch and pinkie ring and observing as he fondles carefully selected props including stacks of money and a single bullet." strong language some violent images and brief nudity." by some accounts — his own for sure — the most powerful drug dealer in Harlem posed for the cover of The New York Times Magazine. The headline “Mr. Untouchable ” is now the title of a flashy new documentary directed by Marc Levin that opens conveniently a week before “American Gangster ” Ridley Scott’s epic rendering of the career of one of Mr. Barnes’s rivals." Henry Adebonojo; edited by Emir Lewis and Daniel Praid; music by Hi-Tek; produced by Mr. Levin Mary-Jane Robinson Alex Gibney Jason Kliot and Joana Vicente; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 92 minutes." well read (Machiavelli is a particular favorite) and utterly ruthless. His associates recall the glory days of the Harlem heroin syndicate lauding his business acumen and his unsentimental brutal manner of dealing with rivals and turncoats. There is some acknowledgment of the terrible effects of the drug trade on residents of Harlem and other poor New York neighborhoods but for the most part “Mr. Untouchable” clings to the standard hip-hop mythology of the pusher as entrepreneur rebel celebrity and folk hero." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26slip.html
some of them famous Mr. Hopkins has special knowledge of how the lines between the real people and the fictional characters can blur. It’s not a new idea. The author Neal Gabler identified this phenomenon in the title of his book “Life the Movie: How Entertainment Conquered Reality.” But for an actor like Mr. Hopkins disappearing into another character especially a historical figure must be a far more unsettling deconstruction of reality than for the casual moviegoer observing the transformation. That is a notion “Slipstream” might have explored more fruitfully had it focused its wandering attention span kept its camera steadier and figured out what it wanted to say." ” whose star Kevin McCarthy appears in clips from the 1956 film and as his contemporary self. But if that science-fiction classic serves as an all-purpose metaphor for the blurring of reality and movie fantasy and of the double vision of an actor today and his younger celluloid self it isn’t woven satisfactorily into the story." a psychotic hitman and his ominous sidekick Geek (Jeffrey Tambor) storm into a highway diner and menace the patrons and staff for their own amusement. If Mr. Slater has a fine time overacting the part of B-movie villain you can’t help but wonder if Mr. Hopkins knows how mediocre and hackneyed this film within a film is. Is it a joke? Or has he recycled Hannibal Lecter one too many times? Stuffed with references to old movies and insider lore about life on a movie set much of “Slipstream” feels like a loosely connected series of jokes." whose latest project a violent melodrama has fallen apart in midproduction. After the off-screen death of its star Matt Dobbs (Christian Slater) who had taken the movie into his own hands and begun rewriting the script its incompetent Vicodin-addicted director (Gavin Grazer) can’t handle the pressure." the addled decrepit screenwriter played by Anthony Hopkins in his  experimental satire “Slipstream.”" Dante Spinotti; edited by Michael R. Miller; music by Mr. Hopkins; produced by Stella Arroyave and Robert Katz; released by Strand Releasing. Running time: 96 minutes." much like his character comes across as a befuddled observer of his own film whose style is a compendium of avant-garde techniques and narrative tricks wielded willy-nilly to suggest deeper meanings below a hyperkinetic surface. Among other surreal happenings time moves backward and forward objects change color and Felix has near-death experiences that may or may not be real. The entire story could be interpreted as a dying screenwriter’s life flashing before his eyes." ” which Mr. Hopkins wrote and directed and for which he composed the score. It is his third film as a director and his first as a quasi-avant-garde filmmaker working well outside the mainstream. It might be described as his “Mulholland Drive ” the far superior David Lynch film to which “Slipstream” owes an enormous debt. (Fellini’s “8 ½” is another obvious inspiration.)" he desperately telephones his producer Harvey Brickman (John Turturro) a raving madman who orders Felix to fix the movie. As the script is rewritten characters played by Michael Clarke Duncan and Camryn Manheim interject (sometimes on Felix’s own computer) to protest that their roles have been diminished." Stella Arroyave (Gina) Gavin Grazer (Gavin/Paramedic) Lisa Pepper (Tracy) Christian Slater (Matt Dobbs/Ray) Kevin McCarthy (himself) Fionnula Flanagan (Bette Lustig) Camryn Manheim (Barbara) Jeffrey Tambor (Geek/Margolis) Christopher Kennedy Lawford (Lars) Lana Antonova (Lilly) Gene Borkan (Mel/Shel) Michael Clarke Duncan (Mort) Jennifer Mann (Joanie) S. Epatha Merkerson (Bonnie Sylvester) and John Turturro (Harvey)." unassuming Felix is the opposite of Mr. Hopkins’s Richard M. Nixon Pablo Picasso and Hannibal Lecter in that it provides him with no opportunities for flashy impersonation or lip-smacking melodrama. As he reaches into his bag of tricks he can’t resist pulling out images of Nixon and  Hitler (whom he also impersonated in a television movie). Such self-referential flashes suggest a “why not throw in the kitchen sink?” attitude toward experimentation not to mention playful self-parody." ” snaps Bette Lustig (Fionnula Flanagan) an actress in the troubled film Felix has been desperately rewriting. She and Felix have been languishing along with the unhappy cast and crew on the project’s dilapidated set in the Mojave Desert built years ago (according to the “Slipstream” production notes) for a Dennis Hopper film." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26seeg.html
and allows a few of Mr. Seeger’s detractors to have a brief say. I wish they or someone had pushed a little harder into the reality that lay beneath the beautiful abstractions of peace justice and democracy that American Communists claimed to embrace. Yes they were idealists but most were damnably slow to acknowledge the monstrous truth about the Soviet paradise they defended. And while many of them including Mr. Seeger suffered banishment and harassment as a result of their political affiliations the crimes of Joseph R. McCarthy and his allies come nowhere near those of Stalin." but also a living presence whose best songs grow less quaint and more urgent every day and who can drive some listeners crazy even as he moves others to tears. If you watch the video (included in this film) of him singing “Waist Deep in the Big Muddy” on CBS in 1968 you’ll know just what I mean." and his reedy tenor has lost some of  its force but he still chops wood outside his home in the Hudson Valley protests against war and plays the banjo about as well as anyone ever has. Those of us who grew up on his songs sometimes take him for granted as our youthful enthusiasm for his versions  of “Abiyoyo” and “Froggy Went a-Courtin’” give way to more sophisticated pleasures like Mr.  Springsteen or Mr. Earle. But Mr.  Brown’s documentary reminds us with admirable thoroughness why we shouldn’t take Pete Seeger for granted." for one thing more complicated than he might seem at first much in the way that the folk music he adores reveals hidden nuances beneath apparently simple stories and tunes. It’s true that in his performances he suppressed some of those nuances especially when they touched on matters of sex murder or religion but he also did an awful lot to popularize and preserve the beauty and strangeness of the American musical vernacular. The son of an academic musicologist and a gifted violinist he has always looked and sounded less like the product of Eastern boarding schools than like a figure out of 19th-century legend: gangly with a deliberate manner of speaking and the zealous gleam of true belief in his eye." Mr. Seeger would surely refuse to make such a distinction and for another the person who introduced “We Shall Overcome” to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and who later spearheaded the cleanup of the Hudson River does not have much to apologize for. By the same token a country that  closed  its  airwaves for 17 years  to one of its foremost musical patriots (so called by no less an authority than Johnny Cash) has some explaining to do." Mr. Seeger seems to exist outside of and in opposition to the commercial machinery of celebrity. His sensibility is cosmopolitan but also agrarian devoted to land family and community — to traditional American values you might say." all of it accompanied by plenty of music — to offer an affectionate detailed portrait of its subject. The most touching and revealing moments come when Mr. Seeger’s wife Toshi and their three children recall some of the challenges of living with a stubborn itinerant folk singer. When you hear their accounts of how he built the family cabin with his bare hands on a hillside in Beacon N.Y. you begin to see what a deeply American fundamentally conservative temperament he has." Pete Seeger has been collecting his share of tributes:  honors at the Kennedy Center from President Bill Clinton; a paean from a fictional colleague in John Updike’s short story “Licks of Love”; a lively CD of folk songs from Bruce Springsteen and a gaggle of talented session players; a rousing song on Steve Earle’s latest album. Not that Mr. Seeger is one to sit around and bask in approbation. As the latest tribute — Jim Brown’s loving documentary “Pete Seeger: The Power of Song” — makes clear he’s still busy still angry still hopeful still singing." Mr. Brown Tom Hurwitz and Bobby Shepard; edited by Sam Pollard and Jason L. Pollard; produced by Michael Cohl William Eigen and Mr. Brown; released by the Weinstein Company and Concert Productions International. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 93 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26rail.html
written by Micky Levy would challenge even a more practiced director. One afternoon while running  his train from Los Angeles to Seattle Tom slams into a car parked on the tracks. Inside is the body of a psychologically ravaged younwoman (Bonnie Root) who in her insanity and desperation has also tried to do away with her 11-year-old son Davey (Miles Heizer a newcomer and a real find). As the train bears down on the car Davey escapes just in time. Unmoored and unloved this lonely sad and impressively resourceful boy makes his way to Tom and Megan’s house of illness and miscommunication. Only those who have never seen a movie need to be told what happens next." adult language death." even behind the scenes. It may seem unfair to point this out but Ms. Eastwood has done herself no favors by tapping some crucial members of the filmmaking team that works for her father Clint Eastwood which of course only invites scrutiny and comparison. “Rails & Ties” was shot by Tom Stern the cinematographer for Mr. Eastwood’s last five films. Here Mr. Stern keeps things simple and by and large bright which is presumably what was asked of him and affords no hint of his genius for chiaroscuro. Mr. Eastwood’s new production designer James M. Murakami; one of his editors Gary D. Roach; and his longtime costume designer Deborah Hopper also contributed to “Rails & Ties.” Their work serves Ms. Eastwood’s caution. Everything looks professional if undistinguished." “Rails & Ties ” has a functional visual style and an abundance of drama that would go unnoticed in the close-up actor-oriented world of television. The film is so self-consciously unadorned so   humble and plain that it feels as if its director didn’t want us to think that she was trying to make some kind of cinematic statement. She hasn’t. Though she serves her actors well enough and sometimes even better than that her grasp of the medium and its expressivity is less sure." Marcia Gay Harden (Megan) Miles Heizer (Davey) and Bonnie Root (Laura)." Los Angeles and Toronto." an emotionally tamped-down railroad engineer with a dying wife Mr. Bacon gives the film gravity and energy. Unlike Marcia Gay Harden an appealing actress who takes on the role of the terminally ill wife Megan with rather too much enthusiasm Mr. Bacon plays it as cool as he can. He’s brusque in word and severe in gesture tightly wound withholding. He keeps the character back from us in reserve even when called on to execute an important moment as when he has to angrily sweep Tom’s model train to the ground. Even Mr. Bacon’s gently lined face seems in retreat as if his very skin and flesh had withdrawn." Tom Stern; edited by Gary D. Roach; music by Kyle Eastwood and Michael Stevens; costume designer Deborah Hopper; production designer James J. Murakami; produced by Robert Lorenz Peer Oppenheimer and Barrett Stuart; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 100 minutes." Ms. Eastwood does manage to tap into something honest and unexpectedly moving at times. She’s particularly good at handling the interplay between Mr. Bacon’s inhibited performance and Mr. Heizer’s periodically near-hysteric one. Her work with Ms. Harden satisfies less; the actress has her moments but she tends to hit her notes with excessive force banging away too loudly for this otherwise quiet film. The whole thing improves greatly during its second half after the story’s incredible coincidences have given way to Tom Megan and Davey just living everyday ordinary life trying to find ways to fit together with kindness and with love." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26jimm.html
Los Angeles Boston Chicago and  San Francisco." “Is There Still a Jewish Question? Why I’m an Anti-Anti-Zionist ”  Ms. Willis wrote that “the left has focused on Israeli acts of domination and human rights violations with an intense and consistent outrage that it fails to direct toward comparable or worse abuses elsewhere certainly toward the unvarnished tyrannies in the Middle East (where for instance is the divestment campaign against Saudi Arabia?).”" with an exception. At one point the camera leaves Mr. Carter’s side to duck into a  Yemeni-Israeli restaurant in New York to watch customers watching him defend his book on “Larry King Live.” And what do we learn from these random diners who — for all we’re told could be Jews or Baptists — other than that they apparently like Yemeni food? Well according to one of the two men briefly interviewed the solution is to put a gun to the head of the Hamas leadership a comment whose inclusion says more about this over-simplistic documentary than it does about this ostensibly representative Jewish voice." ” which opens with archival images of Lillian Carter on “The Tonight Show” telling Johnny Carson (resplendent in an eye-popping plaid suit) that Jimmy her eldest child never criticizes her. From this affirmation — of the mother’s love of the son’s magnanimity — the film cuts to what will become one of its more recurrent images of Mr. Carter of him seated in a car or a plane and talking to the camera or into a cellphone or to an assistant or to a Secret Service agent as the world races and sometimes drifts by him through the adjacent window." but he plays one in a new documentary. That film “Jimmy Carter Man From Plains ”  was directed by Jonathan Demme and is a friendly at times fawning at times gaga 126-minute chronicle of the former president’s 2006 national book tour to promote and occasionally defend his best seller “Palestine Peace Not Apartheid.” Much like its subject the film is approachable and tonally unmodulated. It delivers even its loudest most contentious points in a quiet measured indoor voice." including bloodied bodies." Declan Quinn; edited by Kate Amend; music by Djamel Ben Yelles Alejandro Escovedo Gillian Welch and David Rawlings; produced by Mr. Demme and Neda Armian; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 126 minutes." while Mr. Carter invokes Jesus almost as much as he does Israel in the documentary Mr. Demme never directly puts these two parts of  his subject’s life into play with each other. Neither does the filmmaker engage with any of the more inflammatory claims from Mr. Carter’s book including this:  “There are constant and vehement political and media debates in Israel concerning its policies in the West Bank but because of powerful political economic and religious forces in the United States Israeli government decisions are rarely questioned or condemned voices from Jerusalem dominate in our media and most American citizens are unaware of circumstances in the occupied territories.”" he’s discoursing on television and radio. Mr. Demme never obviously joins in the conversation though he communicates through each image camera angle and edit. His choices speak volumes about what he would like us to know about Mr. Carter: the former president flies commercial handles his own luggage (he even waves off the help of one hotel doorman) and reads the Bible daily with his wife Rosalynn. He helps build houses for Habitat for Humanity and hugs children. He loves Israel. But he wants it  to stop oppressing the Palestinian people because it’s the right thing to do and because it will lead to peace in the Mideast. It’s that simple." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26deni.html
so do the number of protesters surely in some part inspired by Ka Hsaw Wa’s courage. Documentaries like “Total Denial” are less interested in exhibiting a particular filmmaking style than in telling stories that cry out to be heard." Katie Redford an American activist who traveled to Myanmar to support a similar cause Ka Hsaw Wa guided a victorious eight-year lawsuit against  Unocal an oil company that is now defunct. In the case settled in 2004 15 unidentified villagers sued the company   for human-rights abuses accusing it of  collaborating with the  Myanmar military to build a pipeline using forced labor. (Courtroom scenes in which the defense argues that the case is based on pure fabrication are nicely offset by the plaintiffs relating their harrowing decidedly believable version of events from home.)" with English subtitles) produced and directed by Milena Kaneva; director of photography Ms. Kaneva; edited by Ms. Kaneva and Nina Altuparmakova; music by Nikolai Ivanov; released by MK Production. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 92 minutes. This film is not rated." ” Milena Kaneva’s incisive look at Myanmar one thing is unmistakable: Its central figure Ka Hsaw Wa is the stuff heroes are made of (even if the film only narrowly escapes overglorifying him). An articulate student activist turned refugee with movie star good looks he tries to make a difference by documenting the human-rights violations inflicted on Karen  villagers by the military of Myanmar formerly Burma." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26dan.html
there are fewer of these along the way than you might expect. Yes there is the maudlin back story of Dan’s widowhood and  the familiar scenario  of all that quirky kin stuffed into one house for a few days. But Mr. Hedges a seasoned screenwriter showed in his directing debut “Pieces of April ” that he could infuse tired conventions of domestic comedy with fresh life and real intelligence. And here working in a less self-consciously eccentric mode he does it again." headed by John Mahoney and Dianne Wiest and including Dan’s three girls a bunch of other kids and some fine grown-up actors like Amy Ryan and Norbert Leo Butz in too-small roles. Comic misunderstandings give way to hard feelings which produce even bigger comic misunderstandings and harder feelings and then before you know it the credits are rolling over an outdoor wedding scene while a cool-looking band sings a cool-sounding song." like many characters played by Mr. Carell has the curious quality of seeming to be more complicated than he really is. The wary wry detachment that he brings to each new role is starting to feel less like a hallmark than a sign of fatigue. And as in the dreadful “Evan Almighty ” he is forced to depict a character learning valuable lessons. (The genius of Michael Scott the manager he plays on “The Office ” is that Michael is congenitally impervious to learning.) Dan a onetime novelist now writes a parenthood  column but though he is a conscientious father he is not always understanding or compassionate." Lawrence Sher; edited by Sarah Flack; music by Sondre Lerche; production designer Sarah Knowles; produced by Jon Shestack and Brad Epstein; released by Touchstone Pictures. Running time: 95 minutes." advise thyself! My own advice would be not to expect too much from “Dan in Real Life.” That way you can be pleasantly surprised." Juliette Binoche (Marie) Dane Cook (Mitch) Alison Pill (Jane) Brittany Robertson (Cara) Marlene Lawston (Lilly) Emily Blunt (Ruthie) Amy Ryan (Eileen) Norbert Leo Butz (Clay) Dianne Wiest (Nana) and John Mahoney (Poppy)." and at 43 more than matches the sexiness of 24-year-old Emily Blunt who shows up briefly as a potential romantic rival. (Both women are supposed to be around the same age as Dan or Mitch or something.) But exactly who Marie is apart from the embodiment of wonderfulness is never quite clear. Nor is it entirely plausible that she would fall for both the dim genial Mitch and the cerebral uptight Dan." ” and the surprise is how frequently it succeeds. “Dan in Real Life” is neither wildly farcical nor mockingly cruel but rather for the most part winningly gentle and observant." with a script Mr. Hedges wrote with Pierce Gardner follows Dan (Steve Carell) a widower with three daughters to a family gathering at his parents’ rambling vacation home in Rhode Island. His encounter with that woman in the bookstore — her name is Marie and she has the good fortune to be played by Juliette Binoche — leads to quite a bit of awkwardness. It turns out that she is the new girlfriend of Dan’s bachelor brother Mitch (an astonishingly tolerable Dane Cook) and she’s joining the clan for the weekend." ” the title character at a bookstore meets the woman he will fall in love with. Mistaking him for an employee she breathlessly tries to describe the kind of book she’s looking for. (He responds by gathering up a random assortment of volumes that includes the poems of Emily Dickinson “Anna Karenina” and “Everybody Poops.”) “I want something funny ” she says. “But not laugh-out-loud funny. And definitely not making-fun-of-people funny. I want something human funny.”" but rather finds humor in things people might actually say. The characters are funny not just to us but also to one another. Like most people they use humor as a means of communication and self-defense which gives the movie a genial unhurried lived-in feeling." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/26/movies/26bell.html
Tammy Blanchard (Nina) Manny Perez (Restaurant Owner) Angelica Aragon (José’s Mother) Jaime Tirelli (José’s Father) and Ali Landry (Celia)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Monteverde Patrick Million and Leo Severino; director of photography Andrew Cadelago; edited by Fernando Villena; music by Stephan Altman; produced by Mr. Severino Eduardo Verástegui Mr. Monteverde Denise Pinckley and Sean Wolfington; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 91 minutes." José (the Mexican actor Eduardo Verástegui) is a selfless angel with big blue eyes and a gaping emotional wound who works as a chef in his brother Manny’s Mexican restaurant in New York City. When Manny fires Nina (Tammy Blanchard) a waitress for being late José quits in solidarity and becomes her rescuer. After she confesses that she is pregnant and planning an abortion he decides  to talk her out of it helps her find a new job and takes her home to his warm-hearted Latino family on Long Island." there isn’t the slightest suggestion of romance between him and Nina. All we know of José is that a tragic accident several years earlier derailed his brilliant soccer career just as he was about to sign a $2 million contract. When the incident is finally shown (at the movie’s halfway point) it is milked for every last teardrop and José’s good deeds can be seen as acts of atonement." ” a saccharine trifle directed by Alejandro Monteverde won the People’s Choice Award at the 2007 Toronto International Film Festival. This is a movie that wears its bleeding heart on its sleeve and loves its characters to distraction. Nothing — not even significant plot glitches and inconsistencies — is allowed to get in the way of its bear-hugging embrace of sweetness and light." the response to it suggests how desperate some people are for an urban fairy tale with a happy ending no matter how ludicrous." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/24/movies/24lage.html
who is shown in his Paris studio and presiding at photo shoots (one with Nicole Kidman) and fashion shows exudes a papal grandeur. Mr. Lagerfeld says he never formally studied fashion and has no patience for the craft of dressmaking. The movie offers no résumé or analysis of his work. It is simply an extended interview without talking-head commentary." ” an intimate portrait of the designer who has ruled the House of Chanel for more than two decades. At least Mr. Lagerfeld an imperial figure if there ever was one demonstrates how to act the part." however Mr. Lagerfeld avoids mentioning the names of lovers or recalling major relationships. The most he will say is that there have been “a few tragedies I couldn’t possibly talk about.”" ” he declares. “I want to be an apparition.”" dangerous and unfair”; “There is a German saying: ‘You can’t borrow on your past.’”; “I love change; I’m attached to nothing”; “When I took on Chanel it was a sleeping beauty  — not even a beautiful one; she snored”; “Success nullifies; you have to do it again and better.” He sneers at “bourgeois marriages ” is pro-prostitution and as befits a man who aspires to be an apparition virulently anti-psychoanalysis." but the male companions pictured are unidentified." written directed and photographed by Rodolphe Marconi might be described as a friendly sparring match between the filmmaker and his subject with Mr. Marconi repeatedly pressuring Mr. Lagerfeld to open up about his private life. The tone of the questions implies that Mr. Marconi already knows the answers and wants Mr. Lagerfeld to spill the same beans on camera that he has off but the designer continually eludes his interrogator." Mr. Lagerfeld is candid about his homosexuality. He says he was aware of it by the age of 13 when he told his parents for whom it was not a problem. When an older man and woman made passes at him he recalls his mother instead of flying into a rage about child molestation scolded her son and said such incidents wouldn’t happen if he didn’t behave so provocatively." with English subtitles) and directed by Rodolphe Marconi; director of photography Mr. Marconi; edited by Laure Mercier; produced by Gregory Bernard; released by Koch Lorber Films. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 89 minutes. This film is not rated." he is given to making lofty pronouncements with an aphoristic ring. If the documentary had a subtitle it might be “The Wit and Wisdom of Karl Lagerfeld.” Or more accurately “The Wisdom and Obfuscation.”" he asserts is a sword of Damocles. And he implies that many have been permanently exiled from his court. “Forgiveness isn’t something I’m preoccupied with ” he says. “Turning the other cheek is not my trip. The curtain falls: an iron curtain.”" he says was “the polar opposite of a typical German mother.” She “exuded frivolity” and “made slaves of everyone.” Mr. Lagerfeld displays a similar mixture of eccentricity and severity. With his white ponytail high white collars sunglasses fingerless gloves (his hands are festooned with rings) and preference for black he resembles a man of the cloth “a defrocked one ” he says matter-of-factly." near the Danish border and moved to Paris as a teenager. As a child he admits he was “unbearable and spoiled” and compares himself to Shirley Temple. Even now he cannot go to sleep without a pillow clutched to his stomach." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/24/movies/24dead.html
Roger Lloyd Pack (Donald) Kate Fahy (Nancy) and Sarah Ball (Nurse Mary)." “The Living and the Dead” is a horror movie only in the most literal sense. Skirting genre conventions Simon Rumley’s twisted feature inhabits shores where the gore is minimal and the demons unseen — neither of which makes it any less disconcerting." but rarely with such eccentricity or unrelieved ruthlessness. As James darts around the house chased by Richard Chester’s increasingly dissonant score the movie suffers lapses of looniness that strain credulity." the director — whose own mother died after a lengthy illness — finds the tragedy in deterioration. Sometimes that’s horror enough." Milton Kam; edited by Benjamin Putland; music by Richard Chester; production designer Will Field; produced by Mr. Rumley and Nick O’Hagan; released by Imagination Worldwide/TLA Releasing. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 83 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie unflinchingly observes the disintegration of the Brocklebank family crumbling aristocrats facing more than bankruptcy. With a dying wife (Kate Fahy) and a mentally ill son James (Leo Bill in a high-wire performance) Lord Donald (Roger Lloyd Pack) is understandably anxious about an impending business trip. Sure enough no sooner has he gone than James — assisted by hallucinations from ever more creative drug cocktails — rejects the hired nurse and ministers to Mummy himself." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/20/movies/20sara.html
respectively). David fears that a malevolent spirit will kill him on his 21st birthday in revenge for a fatal car wreck. (The paranormal hour apparently is newspeak for the witching hour.)" Ms. Walters is subordinated to the true stars the Comries. Despite its title “Sarah Landon” is actually a Comrie family party: one Comrie directed it another helped write it and more are credited as executive producers." and the filmmakers seek a sequel. But this would-be franchise might be better suited to an early grave." based on a story by Mr. Comrie; director of photography Andrew Kuepper; edited by Andrew Cohen; music by Joseph Conlan; production designer Kurt Braun; produced by Mr. Cohen; released by Sunset Creek. Running time: 81 minutes." it’s obvious that this film is aimed at girls raised on J. K. Rowling and R. L. Stine. The 17-year-old sleuth of the title (played by the competent newcomer Rissa Walters refreshingly not too Hollywood glamorous or svelte) goes to a small town to see the grandmother (Jane Harris) of a friend killed by a drunken driver." which parades in softened form conventions like scrawls on walls and vertiginous camerawork coheres more or less. But the film is sunk by a pervasive stasis the byproduct not of mood but of the filmmakers’ amateurish abilities. If there’s one thing Nick and Disney know it’s that youthful entertainment needs to keep moving." the modest distributor behind “Dragon Wars: D-War ” clearly possesses it although judging by “Sarah Landon and the Paranormal Hour ” its rivals have little to worry about." Alessandra Daniele (Young Sarah) Brian Comrie (David Baker) Dan Comrie (Matt Baker) Jane Harris (Mrs. Shaw) Dakota Jade (Young Megan) and Rick Comrie (Johnny Woods)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/20/movies/20come.html
” “Miracle ” “Rocky ” “Rudy ” “Friday Night Lights” and many other movies are strewn throughout its running time like used DVDs crammed into a Blockbuster bin. There’s even a mentally challenged team mascot modeled on the title character from “Radio ” inevitably named iPod (Jermaine Williams)." spotlighted players croon the opening lines of Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing” and then the walls part to reveal the arena stage on which the team will finish the number complete with stage pyrotechnics and a climactic split-screen image of a silhouetted iPod dancing: genius." Carl Weathers (Freddie Wiseman) Matthew Lawrence (Lance Truman) Brooke Nevin (Michelle Fields) Jackie Long (Trotter) Melora Hardin (Barb Fields) Jermaine Williams (iPod) and Martin Spanjers (Randy)." showboating receiver (Jackie Long) collects mint-condition My Little Pony merchandise. The apple-pie quarterback (Matthew Lawrence) practices ballet in a tutu and fantasizes his teammates lip-synching “It’s Raining Men” in the locker room. The coach’s neglected spouse (Melora Hardin) almost succeeds in passing off her young lover as an exchange student until he tells the coach he’s from Makingsweetlovetoyourwifeistan." sexual situations and slapstick violence." ultimately tedious comedy “The Comebacks” — in which a loser coach named Lambeau Fields (David Koechner) leads a misfit team to victory — is one of those parody movies that presume that merely making reference to another film constitutes a joke." based on a story by John Aboud Michael Colton Adam Jay Epstein and Andrew Jacobson; director of photography Anthony B. Richmond; edited by Alan Edward Bell; music by Christopher Lennertz; production designer Marc Fisichella; produced by Peter Abrams Andrew Panay and Robert L. Levy; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 88 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19wris.html
or nonexistence as the case may be. For Zia it’s a lot like the life he  quit but “a little bit worse.” This netherworld which looks like a shabby corner of the American Southwest is a place of broken-down cars hand-lettered signs and unflattering fluorescent lights. No one is able to smile and the stars are invisible. Still a desultory society has taken shape. People compare notes on how as they put it they “offed”   (the title notwithstanding some used nooses guns or gas).  And since everyone is already dead there’s no reason not to smoke a cigarette or drink a beer first thing in the morning." trapped in a weird movie about a weird place underplay their astonishment. Mr. Fugit such a perfect quiet witness to the rock ’n’ roll craziness of “Almost Famous ” shows a remarkable range of emotions against a ground bass of morose bewilderment and Ms. Sossamon moody and mercurial is his perfect foil. Mr. Whigham seems to have drifted in from a Gogol short story by way of an Iggy Pop song and Mr. Waits gives the whole strange irresistible confection his scruffy soulful blessing." written and directed by Goran Dukic a graduate of the Academy of Dramatic Arts in Zagreb Croatia and based on a  novella by the Israeli writer Etgar Keret has an offbeat absurdist charm that turns a potentially creepy conceit into an odd touching adventure. The Sundance Film Festival (where “Wristcutters” first popped up in 2006 before vanishing into indie limbo) can be a breeding ground for studiously whimsical willfully quirky films. “Wristcutters” belongs to a rarer species: it is genuinely eccentric." Shannyn Sossamon (Mikal) Shea Whigham (Eugene) Tom Waits (Kneller) Leslie Bibb (Desiree) and John Hawkes (Jan)." but with such low-key self-confidence that it takes a while to appreciate the full measure of its originality." based on the novella “Kneller’s Happy Campers” by Etgar Keret; director of photography Vanja Cernjul; edited by Jonathan Alberts; music by Bobby Johnston; production designer Linda Sena; produced by Adam Sherman Tatiana Kelly Mikal P. Lazarev and Chris Coen; released by Autonomous Films. Running time: 88 minutes." a failed musician and semi-successful ladies’ man whose loving Russian family has oddly enough accompanied him into this afterlife. Zia and Eugene in the course of a road trip meet up with Mikal (Shannyn Sossamon) a lovely young woman who is trying to convince whoever is in charge of this world that she was sent there by mistake. Zia’s attraction to her is complicated by his search for his old girlfriend Desiree who caused his self-destruction and seems to have followed it with her own." and commits suicide by the method suggested in the title. As a consequence of this act apparently provoked by love trouble he is plunged into a purgatory reserved for those unfortunate or impulsive souls who chose a similar exit." especially a comedy. Apart from the inevitable lighting and labor issues there is the risk of alienating viewers with sentimentality implausibility or questionable metaphysics. Then again when the conceit works you may wind up with “It’s a Wonderful Life ” “Defending Your Life” or the various iterations of “Heaven Can Wait.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19roun-003.html
with English subtitles) and directed by Daniel Sánchez Arévalo; director of photography Juan Carlos Gómez; edited by Nacho Ruiz Capillas; music by Pascal Gaigne; art director Federico García Cambero; produced by José Antonio Félez; released by Strand Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 105 minutes. This film is not rated." Marta Etura (Paula) Antonio de la Torre (Antonio) Héctor Colomé (Andrés) Raúl Arévalo (Israel) Eva Pallarés (Natalia) Manuel Morón (Fernando) Ana Wagener (Ana) and Roberto Enríquez (Roberto)." isolating the characters from their dreams and from one another create a yearning atmosphere that pulls you in; like their director you really want them to escape." then no one told the Spanish filmmaker Daniel Sánchez Arévalo whose first feature “DarkBlueAlmostBlack ” portrays repressed longing with been-there done-that assurance." a reluctant janitor caring for his dementia-addled father (Héctor Colomé). Next door is the beautiful neighbor (Eva Pallarés) he feels is too good for him; on his wall is the business degree he yearns to use. So when his imprisoned brother (Antonio de la Torre) makes a shockingly personal request Jorge obliges: after all he’s accustomed to pleasing everyone but himself." “DarkBlueAlmostBlack” juggles characters trapped by circumstance and poor choices trying feebly to free themselves from dead-end lives and low self-esteem. With an unfailingly empathetic eye the director (who also wrote the screenplay) observes the tug of family and the weight of obligation placing his characters on opposite sides of real or symbolic barriers: the glass screen in a prison visiting room or a single made-up bed." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19gone.html
and Gus Van Sant put him in “Gerry ” his 2002 avant-garde feature in which Mr. Affleck  roamed around a merciless desert landscape with Matt Damon with whom he took turns playing Beavis and Butt-head Vladimir and Estragon." the actor Ben Affleck has chosen a brooding serious drama about missing children wayward parents and idealism lost and regained. “Gone Baby Gone” is based on the novel by Dennis Lehane who wrote the similarly themed “Mystic River ” which Clint Eastwood turned into a modern classic. If Mr. Affleck hasn’t raised his material to that rarefied level he has taken a satisfyingly tough look into conscience to those dark places where some men also go astray." mostly with his older famous peers Ed Harris and Morgan Freeman who delivers one of the more unpersuasive performances of his career as the head of the police department’s missing-children division. The director does better with Mr. Harris who plays a hotheaded detective in a distracting hairpiece though again Mr. Affleck doesn’t control the performance as well as he does those of the other cast members. He also wavers when he lingers too long over the crumpled faces and bodies of what appear to be real South Boston natives." and a horrifying subplot  involving a pedophile." or at least most of them. The film has been wonderfully populated with character actors like Titus Welliver who plays Lionel Helene’s straight-talking brother and Michael K.  Williams one of the outstanding  villains from the HBO drama “The Wire ” who shows up here as a friendly cop." or at least the embodiment of a certain familiar fear: the bad woman (welfare queen) periodically held up as a symptom of some grave social disorder. Working with her supportive encouraging director Ms. Ryan plays with this stereotype and our sympathies to the breaking point. Deploying her broad Boston accent like a weapon she whines and retreats testing Patrick’s sympathy with each one of her pathetic excuses. It’s a gutsy sensational performance that adds layers to an already spiky provocative creation. At first you hate the woman and love the actress though because Ms. Ryan and Ben Affleck are wise to the ways of scapegoating you learn why that hate is misplaced." but neither he nor his director let on all they know about Patrick. There’s something about this guy that needles that helps keep an already tense story on edge." one of the graces of “Gone Baby Gone” is its sensitivity to real struggle to the lived-in spaces and worn-out consciences that can come when despair turns into nihilism. Mr. Affleck doesn’t live in these derelict realms but for the most part he earns the right to visit." is she alive and for how long — “Gone Baby Gone” pays closer heed to the enigmas of soul and heart than to clues and guesswork. There are false leads dead ends brandished guns and nightmarish discoveries as well as shadows and controlled camerawork but mostly there are human frailties and thrown-away forgotten lives. The screenplay by Ben Affleck and Aaron Stockard whittles down but  doesn’t reduce Mr. Lehane’s material pulling out details and types that stick to the screen including Amanda’s mother Helene played by a ferocious Amy Ryan. Talk about not wanting our love! Ugly in voice and deed Helene is the underclass mother from hell a hazard a druggie a villain in waiting." who has a few startling scenes as Helene’s comically scarily belligerent friend Dottie; and the Boston rapper Slaine whose cool dead-eye performance as the  drug dealer who leads Patrick right into the heart of darkness adds menace to one of the film’s strongest most harrowing scenes." but Casey Affleck doesn’t seem to know that or maybe he doesn’t care. Patrick doesn’t cuddle or kiss up. He takes the job Bea offers despite the reluctance of his live-in girlfriend and partner Angie (a solid Michelle Monaghan) but he doesn’t look like anyone’s idea of a savior. With his sneakers and jeans and small-man’s swagger he comes off like one of those toughs who never leave the neighborhood and would sooner swing a bat at your head than at a ball." a blond doll has disappeared without a trace amid the squalor of her South Boston neighborhood. The cops are out in formation as are the television news vans antennas raised high and all but trembling for blood. Staring into the cameras the neighbors eagerly offer ready-made headlines and self-flattering condolences: they’re coming together everyone loves Amanda. The days tick past and the child’s anxious aunt Bea (Amy Madigan) seeks  help from a local private investigator Patrick Kenzie a squirt who looks as if he just dropped out of college and is played without an ounce of actorly ingratiation by Casey Affleck the director’s younger brother." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19thin.html
” which won her an Oscar as much for her nerve in becoming unstrung during sex as for her acting. This time her character is well-to-do and no sex is involved." drug taking and strong language." these star turns make you uncomfortably aware that they are Oscar-conscious auditions for the Big Prize. Their naked ambition subtly contaminates a movie that despite its fine acting has the emotional impact of a general anesthetic." tightly wound woman who regards the world with a wary fearful hostility; hysteria lurks just under the surface. Even when she smiles which is not often her good mood is guarded. Ms. Berry’s beauty is at odds with her character’s seeming asexuality which is why Audrey’s lovey-dovey moments with Brian feel perfunctory." by default finds himself the children’s surrogate father and the movie makes much of these cute kids’ small eccentricities and phobias: Harper’s secret habit of sneaking off to watch black-and-white films in a revival house with Brian Dory’s fear of swimming in water over his head. As the children grow to trust and rely on Jerry Audrey increasingly resents him and she eventually throws him out of the house for presuming to usurp Brian’s role although he has not presumed anything." playing Brian’s closest childhood friend Jerry Sunborne a recovering heroin addict living in a halfway house. After everyone else gave up on Jerry Brian continued giving him handouts and encouragement in his fragile recovery much to Audrey’s chagrin. Out of loyalty to Brian she invites Jerry to stay in their garage for nothing in exchange for his helping around the property. Their edgy relationship which for one brief moment heads toward romance is the heart of the movie." Tom Stern; edited by Pernille Bech Christensen and Bruce Cannon; music themes by Gustavo Santaolalla score by Johan Soderqvist; production designer Richard Sherman; produced by Sam Mendes and Sam Mercer; released by Paramount Pictures and DreamWorks Pictures. Running time: 112 minutes." fuzzy formulaic story of pain and “healing ” concocted by Allan Loeb an American making his screenwriting debut? Healing like “closure ” is a concept that when applied to the marketing of popular culture instantly signals emotional manipulation and bad faith." a successful developer and his wife who live outside Seattle with their two beautiful children a 10-year-old girl Harper (Alexis Llewellyn) and a 6-year-old boy Dory (Micah Berry). Between them the children’s heads have enough ringlets for several Shirley Temple wigs." suddenly homeless he goes on a heroin bender and then with the help of Audrey and her brother Neal (Omar Benson Miller) kicks drugs in a groaning and sweating ordeal as flashy as Frank Sinatra’s cold-turkey withdrawal in “The Man With the Golden Arm.”" Brian is shot to death while intervening in a domestic dispute. The family is left in shock. Although Mr. Duchovny vanishes from the film the notion of him and Ms. Berry playing a happily married couple defies credibility. The more we get to know grim strait-laced Audrey the idea that she would tolerate a husband who bears even the tiniest resemblance to Hank Moody Mr. Duchovny’s sarcastic sensualist on the Showtime series “Californication ” is impossible to swallow. What you see is two stars without chemistry gamely going through the motions." all signs point to a meticulous smoothing out of the story to make the movie adhere to someone’s misbegotten notion of an upscale art film with commercial appeal. Because the element of surprise found in abundance in Ms. Bier’s homegrown films has been removed “Things We Lost in the Fire” feels disconnected from the real world." Benicio Del Toro (Jerry Sunborne) David Duchovny (Brian Burke) Alison Lohman (Kelly) Omar Benson Miller (Neal) John Carroll Lynch (Howard Glassman) Alexis Llewellyn (Harper) and Micah Berry (Dory)." the gifted Danish writer-director of “Open Hearts ” “Brothers” and “After the Wedding ” in hopes that she would stamp it with the imprimatur of “art.” On paper Ms. Bier whose unsettling family dramas are the stylistic progeny of Ingmar Bergman via Lars von Trier — without Bergman’s heavy metaphysical baggage and Mr. von Trier’s trickster sensibility — is an ideal candidate for the job. She has the emotional radar of an astute extremely tough therapist who refuses to avert her gaze from the ugliest family dynamics this side of a Noah Baumbach film." ” an earnest recovery drama in which Halle Berry and Benicio Del Toro give strong grown-up performances is the kind of awards-seeking Hollywood movie that bends over backward to prove that serious American movies can hold their own with the best films from overseas. They don’t of course except in very rare instances. The star system and the committee mentality which methodically iron out the quirks from high-minded studio films make it next to impossible." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19nigh.html
“30 Days of Night” is a series of gory set pieces that seems to have been edited with a meat ax. A major early transition is so clumsy that you may assume that the projectionist accidentally skipped a reel. No such luck: it’s a style thing." Melissa George (Stella Olesen) Danny Huston (Marlow) Ben Foster (the Stranger) and Mark Boone Junior (Beau Brower)." a fire marshal; Mark Boone Junior  as his loutish antisocial brother; Danny Huston as the flamboyantly cheesy vampire chieftain; and the impishly hammy Ben Foster as a prophecy-spouting jail inmate whose plot function recalls the similar superior Stephen King mini-series “Storm of the Century.”" Stuart Beattie and Brian Nelson based on the IDW Publishing comic by Mr. Niles and Ben Templesmith; director of photography Jo Willems; edited by Art Jones; music by Brian Reitzell; production designer Paul Denham Austerberry; produced by Sam Raimi and Rob Tapert; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 90 minutes." nasty vampire horde (Eurotrash nightclub-crawler outfits subtitled dialogue) and the besieged citizenry’s attempts to hide and fight." inconsequential B picture. The sun doesn’t rise nearly fast enough." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19rese.html
but he also made me grit my teeth. He did more honest work in “Hotel Rwanda ” a drama about that country’s tribal genocide which clearly stirred him. His heart is in the right place in this new film too but the novel’s moral complexity trips him up as does its scale. The death of a child is a tragedy in close-up but the death of hundreds of thousands of children is so overwhelming it forces us to step back. We think about the horror (or we flee) not just feel it." but you need to feel as if your tears have been justly earned. It may be reassuring a pleasant lie to think that better filmmakers appeal to our emotions not merely prey on them but the great directors need hearts of killers and stone-cold calculation to have their way with us successfully. It takes a talent for murder for a director to rip out our insides to show us a beloved young son turned into so much road kill in front of his father. But it takes a true sense of cinema to ensure that we don’t hate the movie and its maker for doing that to these characters and to us." ” a grim mechanistic thriller about death and suffering life and healing among the civilized. Based on a well-received novel by John Burnham Schwartz who shares screenwriting credit with the film’s director Terry George this is one of those sadistic exercises that puts its characters through the wringer without saying anything true or meaningful like what it takes to get out of bed those mornings when you think the sun will never again rise with you." a volatile man of uncertain character on the page into a weak-willed but essentially decent and loving father on the screen smacks of the worst kind of moviemaking compromise. Did the filmmakers think we couldn’t handle something darker a little moral complication an unattractive lead character? Did the studio suits? The casting of Mr. Ruffalo an appealing actor whose yielding face seems to plead for forgiveness even when there’s nothing to forgive feels particularly calculating designed to make Dwight seem less troubling and less dark. Curiously Mr. Phoenix makes Ethan so rigid with loss that the character comes across as more unyielding and demented than crazed by sorrow which adds one of the few moments of ambiguity in an otherwise  obvious work." badly acted simple-minded unpleasant. The child 10-year-old Josh (Sean Curley) dies shortly after the film opens — as well as in the tell-all trailers — in front of his horrified father Ethan (Joaquin Phoenix). The hit-and-run killer Dwight (Mark Ruffalo) slows down but doesn’t stop and keeps on going and going through one improbable narrative turn after another. As the police investigation drags on and Ethan’s wife Grace (Jennifer Connelly) tries to manage her grief Ethan starts searching first for comfort then the killer. He drops into survivor chat rooms and then in a grave screenwriting mistake hires Dwight’s law firm." wrath and vengeance which suggests that it’s angling for some kind of post-Sept. 11 relevance.  But its insistence on turning Ethan and Dwight into equals — both loving fathers both racked  with pain — flattens the story’s ambitions. (Surely Dwight fled the scene not simply because he wanted to protect his own child from harm.) The film tries to draw parallels between the two with maddeningly schematic editing: one man walks up to his front door; there’s a cut and the other man walks inside his house. All we learn from these forced connections is that these two men enter their homes through their front doors. The entranceways to their deeper selves remain shut tight." based on the novel by Mr. Schwartz; director of photography John Lindley; edited by Naomi Geraghty; music by Mark Isham; production designer Ford Wheeler; produced by Nick Wechsler and A. Kitman Ho; released by Focus Features. Running time: 102 minutes." Mark Ruffalo (Dwight Arno) Jennifer Connelly (Grace Learner) Mira Sorvino (Ruth Wheldon) Elle Fanning (Emma Learner) Eddie Alderson (Lucas Arno) and Sean Curley (Josh Learner)." more or less existentially segregating them by chapter. The film jettisons this fractured pattern and brings the three directly into play with one another through  didactic editing and coincidence. It’s no longer enough that Dwight has a son about the same age as the dead boy or that his former wife (Mira Sorvino) gives Ethan and Grace’s  daughter piano lessons as she does in the novel. Ethan now has to shake Dwight’s hand and solicit his help. Instead of confronting his crime in searching solitude Dwight now looks into the face of fatherly anguish mainly it seems so he can feel the necessary trauma in turn." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19rend.html
Dion Beebe; edited by Megan Gill; music by Paul Hepker and Mark Kilian; production designer Barry Robison; produced by Steve Golin and Marcus Viscidi; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 120 minutes." who runs the rendition program with unflappable conviction. The tussle in Washington is more pointed and emphatic —  “Americans don’t torture ” Ms. Streep hisses while Mr. Sarsgaard hisses back about due process and the rule of law — but the one in North Africa has a more pungent atmosphere and juicier acting." it is inevitable that someone with a loud voice and a small mind will label “Rendition” anti-American. (But look! A quick Internet search reveals that some people already have many of them without even bothering to see the movie.) It is after all much easier to rant and rave about treacherous Hollywood liberals than to think through the moral and strategic questions raised by some of the policies of the American government. But it is just these questions that “Rendition” tries to address in a manner that while hardly neutral — it may not shock you to learn that the filmmakers come out against torture kidnapping and other abuses — nonetheless tries to be evenhanded and thoughtful." honorable movie. Which is not to say that it is a very good one. It suffers especially from a familiar kind of narrative overcrowding. Mr. Sane and Mr. Hood  frantically weave together plot strands in an effort to visit as many ideological religious and emotional battlegrounds as they can and the result is a degree of combat fatigue as well as information overload. The filmmakers obey the current rule in Hollywood that states that a picture with large themes and a one-word title must also have multiple chronologically de-centered storylines. (For your consideration: “Crash”; “Syriana”; “Babel.”) But they don’t handle the complications very well and try to pull off a third-act surprise that is less a plot twist than a logical unraveling. You may spend the last 15 minutes rubbing your eyes and scratching your head in puzzlement rather than fighting back tears." Reese Witherspoon (Isabella Fields El-Ibrahimi) Alan Arkin (Senator Hawkins) Peter Sarsgaard (Alan Smith) Meryl Streep (Corrinne Whitman) Omar Metwally (Anwar El-Ibrahimi) Igal Naor (Abasi Fawal) Zineb Oukach (Fatima Fawal) and Moa Khouas (Khalid El-Emin)." steely resolve until the script calls upon her to start screaming while Ms. Streep savors another chance to embody the chilly self-confidence of power. Ms. Oukach and Mr. Khouas as the young star-crossed lovers have little to do but regard each other with wounded wide-eyed longing; this is not a movie with much need for ingénues." back in North Africa the police chief Abasi Fawal (Igal Naor) when he isn’t torturing Anwar in a dank shadowy dungeon is worrying about his oldest daughter Fatima (Zineb Oukach). She has been hanging around with Khalid (Moa Khouas) a poor soulful artist with a sad smile a motorbike and connections to the terrorists. And Douglas Freeman (Mr. Gyllenhaal) a C.I.A. analyst whose Bogart- (or perhaps Clooney-) esque dissolution was interrupted by the bombing begins to have second thoughts about what Fawal is doing." taken on its own yields some touching moments and canny insights. At the center of the hubbub is Anwar El-Ibrahimi (Omar Metwally who stole a scene in “Munich”) an Egyptian-born engineer who has lived in the United States for his entire adult life. On his way home to Chicago from Cape Town Anwar is snatched at the airport in Washington and “rendered” into the brutal penal system of an unspecified North African country where a suicide bombing has recently killed among others a C.I.A. operative. Back home Anwar’s American wife Isabella (Ms. Witherspoon) unable to find out what has happened to him tries to work her only government connection an old boyfriend Alan Smith (Peter Sarsgaard) who now works on the staff of one Senator Hawkins (Alan Arkin)." with his shiny head and bushy eyebrows is as emphatic in his gestures and expressions as an actor in a silent movie with a gruff rolling baritone that makes you glad that “Rendition” isn’t one. Mr. Gyllenhaal for his part tries his hand at minimalism conveying his character’s ethical quandary by moping and mumbling. The two of them are an oddly captivating team." it could have used more subtlety a lighter touch a more disciplined narrative. But all its clumsy efforts are toward an honest and difficult goal which is to use the resources of mainstream movie-making to get viewers thinking about a moral crisis that many of us would prefer to ignore. Of course it’s disappointing when such efforts don’t succeed but I wouldn’t want to live in a country where filmmakers never tried." that is receives a sympathetic hearing. The North African police chief who supervises the beating and water-boarding of an innocent prisoner the American intelligence official who puts the prisoner into the torturer’s hands the senator who hesitates to intervene. They may be villains but they see their actions as justified something they have in common with the conscience-stricken Central Intelligence Agency analyst and the reluctant jihadist who are their adversaries." but it is hardly naïve. Rather it tries to be thoughtful and respectful of complexity while at the same time honoring the imperatives of commercial entertainment. It has timely issues and serious ambitions and it also has movie stars — Reese Witherspoon with a huge pregnant belly! Meryl Streep with a Southern accent! Jake Gyllenhaal with sad sleepy eyes! — as well as young romance breathless chases and violent explosions. Honestly what could be more American than that? (Now might be the time to note that the director Gavin Hood is from South Africa. His last film “Tsotsi ” won the Oscar in 2006 for best foreign-language film. The screenwriter here is Kelley Sane.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19meet.html
with English subtitles; directors of photography Mr. Connors and Ms. Bingham; edited by David Emanuele; produced by Daniel J. Chalfen; released by Nine Lives Documentary Production. In Manhattan at the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 85 minutes. This film is not rated." a hated strongman lionized after his overthrow there is no Iraq — just ethnic factions united in hatred of “infidels.”" this documentary by Steve Connors and Molly Bingham interviews Iraqi citizens who have taken up arms against United States forces. Some of the subjects confess that Saddam Hussein’s overthrow demoralized them until they met Muslims from other countries (including a 70-year-old Yemeni recalled in one anecdote) who had abandoned their old lives for a chance to kill Americans. But for the most part the film depicts insurgency as an inevitable response that required no prompting from without." “Meeting Resistance” should dispel any lingering misconception that the Iraq insurgency is mainly the work of outside agitators." often shooting them out of focus or fixing on details of body language (hands indicating a leg wound fingertips holding a cigarette)." and imply that some of the fighters are ethnic partisans jockeying for a slice of what will remain should the United States pull out." ” a former Sunni commando says of the Americans “I felt pain.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19blue.html
” by the writer and director Robert Sarkies dramatizes the terror of that day without exploiting it." his neighbor Gary Holden (Simon Ferry)  — who confronted Gray when he  chewed out Holden’s daughter for cutting across his lawn — is a doughy emotional divorced man who’s overjoyed that he’s about to marry another single parent and merge their children-filled households. Helen Dickson (Lois Lawn) an elderly woman with a bad hip survives a spray of rifle fire and crawls to her house to call in help for a man who lies gut-shot by the side of the road." while  excoriating himself for getting the gunman in his sights earlier and failing to pull the trigger. Harvey’s colleague Paul Knox (Paul Glover) goes into the killing zone despite admitting “I don’t have the training for this ” stays through the worst of it then cradles a dead boy as if he were only sleeping." New Zealand on Nov. 13 1990 when an unemployed mentally ill gun-collecting recluse  named David Gray  strapped on weapons and began shooting his neighbors at random. By the time the  police shot him dead 22 hours later he had killed 13 people 4 of them children." and as photographed by Mr. Sarkies and his cinematographer Greig Fraser Gray seems less a demonic stalker than a damaged man whose distress is linked to and exacerbated by his estrangement from his neighbors. Mr. Sarkies drives this point home by grouping the rest of the townspeople in busy ensemble shots whenever possible while photographing Gray slightly out of focus or from off-center angles that literally push him to the film’s margins." the film shows the nastiest incidents from a great distance or cuts away before a bullet’s impact to show an onlooker’s shocked reaction. The director confronts horror without wallowing in it a strategy befitting a film that’s not about how people die but how they live." whom Mr. Sarkies defines not through expository dialogue but simply by watching them exist." based on the book “Aramoana: Twenty-Two Hours of Terror” by Bill O’Brien; director of photography Greig Fraser; edited by Annie Collins; music by Victoria Kelly; production designer Phil Ivey; produced by Tim White and Steven O’Meagher; released by IFC First Take and the Weinstein Company. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 103 minutes. This film is not rated." Matthew Sunderland (David Gray) Lois Lawn (Helen Dickson) Simon Ferry (Gary Holden) Tandi Wright (Julie Ann Bryson) Paul Glover (Paul Knox) William Kircher (Stu Guthrie) Georgina Fabish (Chiquita Holden) and Fayth Rasmussen (Stacey Percy)." ” “Out of the Blue” is a docudrama about a community’s response to atrocity. But unlike Mr. Greengrass’s film which treated its immense cast of characters like figurines on a diorama and let them blur together in the memory “Blue” sketches its people as individuals often in a few vivid strokes. The result is an inspiring film on a bleak subject an account of everyday people who struggle to protect their loved ones from horror while processing and judging their own reactions to it." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/movies/19blac.html
whom  Wagstaff called “my shy pornographer ” was also the older man’s guide to the gay demimonde of extreme sex and drugs that flourished in New York in the 1970s and ’80s and that provided the subject matter for Mapplethorpe’s most notorious photographs. Both men died of AIDS (Wagstaff in 1987 and Mapplethorpe two years later)." in some people’s eyes his inventor. Whatever the power dynamics between them (one commentator asserts that Mapplethorpe coldly used his mentor) they emerge as latter-day fin-de-siècle leather dandies reminiscent in some ways of Oscar Wilde and Alfred Douglas. An intriguing fact is that they were both born on Nov. 4 exactly 25 years apart." Wagstaff admired tough ethnographic and medical  images. Every one of the pictures shown in the movie is haunting with  ominous undertones. No sooner had he amassed one of the world’s most valuable collections than he sold it in 1984 to the J. Paul Getty Museum for $5 million and pursued a new passion collecting American silver. One person who met him on the street in his final years remembers him as “an old man with AIDS dragging plastic bags of silver.”" at least for the moment “Black White + Gray” sets the stage for a similar operation. Get ready." they exude the glamorous mystique of insolent movie and rock stars: think of James Dean and Jim Morrison but with a kinky gay twist. Talent beauty sex death and finally pots of money; their story is a perfect storm around which to spin a profitable legend." studied art history and became a curator at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford where he arranged a major abstract expressionist exhibition then startled the art world with his show “Black White and Gray ” the first minimalist exhibition at a major museum. He was 51 when he met the 26-year-old Mapplethorpe at a party." “Black White + Gray: A Portrait of Sam Wagstaff and Robert Mapplethorpe ” is a potent exercise in art-world mythography that might be nicknamed  “The Prince and the Punk.”" Christopher Felver Harry Geller Paul Lundahl Eric Koziol and David Koh; edited by Daves Giles; music by J. Ralph; produced by Stanley Buchthal Mr. Koh and Maja Hoffman; released by LM Media GmbH and Arthouse Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 87 minutes. This film is not rated." a suave dashingly handsome museum curator and pioneering collector of photographs from an aristocratic New York background of which he was exceedingly proud. His protégé and lover Mapplethorpe who became a famous (and infamous) photographer was the punk who grew up in a working-class neighborhood of Queens and under Wagstaff’s tutelage ascended to the upper reaches of art-world society." ” an influential selection of his favorite pictures he wrote that they reflected “the pleasure of looking and the pleasure of seeing ” which he compared to “watching people through an open window.”" who once lived with  Mapplethorpe and by art-world luminaries in New York and London who speak in grander chillier tones Wagstaff and  Mapplethorpe were a diabolical power couple who lived and died in a mad pursuit of aesthetic perfection and erotic sensation. Ms. Smith loved them both and her tender recollections give the movie narrated in lofty memorial tones by Joan Juliet Buck a necessary thread of warmth." the movie devotes most of its time to Wagstaff whose personal history is a classic case of repressed or closeted homosexuality belatedly and furiously unleashed. He grew up on Central Park South attended Hotchkiss and Yale was a fixture on the debutante circuit joined the Navy in 1941 and later worked in advertising which he hated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/17/movies/17trig.html
“Trigger Man” is the little thriller that could. Claiming inspiration from actual events this smartly written sophomore feature from the young director Ti West — whose debut “The Roost ” exhibited a similar disdain for excess — begins at a dawdle and ends at full gallop. Only the patient will be rewarded." shot and edited the movie) demands an uncluttered soundtrack: for long stretches we hear nothing but birdsong and rustling leaves. When violence occurs — with jolting swiftness — the director maintains his composure staging his steel-trap finale in the eerie emptiness of an abandoned factory complex. It will be interesting to see if this reserve survives the increased pressures and budget of his current project “Cabin Fever 2.”" “Trigger Man” follows three New York friends on a first hunting trip to the woods of Wilmington Del. For the opening  40 minutes the movie simply allows us to tag along as the men wearing orange safety vests and carrying rented rifles search inexpertly for deer and converse in the shorthand of longtime pals. (“So she’s got you smoking again?”) As jumpy as a stalker the camera skulks behind sneaking close and pulling back so abruptly that you would think that the  hunters themselves were the prey. Uh-oh." directed and edited by Ti West; director of photography Mr. West; music by Jeff Grace; produced by Larry Fessenden Peter Phok and Mr. West; released by Glass Eye Pix. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 80 minutes. This film is not rated." Sean Reid (Sean) Ray Sullivan (Ray) Larry Fessenden (Henchman) James Felix McKenney (Shooter) and Heather Robb (Jogger)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/17/movies/17love.html
“Summer Love” — the title matches the syrupy song oozing on the soundtrack — features a sorry collection of nameless archetypes amassed around a ramshackle town under a brilliant blue blazingly bright sky. Among the players are the  Stranger (Karel Roden) a gunslinger who wears black and bleeds red; the Woman (Katarzyna Figura) a busty barmaid whose monstrous tongue would make Gene Simmons blush; the Sheriff (Boguslaw Linda) a broken-down alcoholic carrying a sputtering torch for the barmaid; and the Big Man (Krzysztof Zaleski) a not-so-big man in filthy garb who lusts after the woman. Rather mysteriously Val Kilmer pops up as the Wanted Man a designation that may have more to do with celebrity than function." “Summer Love” has been called the first Polish western and the first Polish spaghetti western though the truer description might be the first deconstructed art western. (The film is being shown through Dec. 9 at the Whitney Museum of American Art.)" Karel Roden (the Stranger) Katarzyna Figura (the Woman) Krzysztof Zaleski (the Big Man) and Val Kilmer (the Wanted Man)." Jacek Petrycki; edited by Mike Horton; produced by Mr. Uklanski Staffan  Ahrenberg and Hamish Skeggs. At the Whitney Museum of American Art 945 Madison Avenue. Screenings through Dec. 9 on Wednesdays Thursdays Saturdays and Sundays at 11:30 a.m. and 2:45 p.m.; Fridays at 1:30 3:45 and 6:30 p.m.   Running time: 93 minutes. This film is not rated." ” “The Good the Bad and the Polish” or even “A Fistful of Poles” — it isn’t quite. (It’s actually a fairly decent one.) Mr. Uklanski is a serious artist or at least a semiserious artist whose works have been exhibited around the world including at the Museum of Modern Art. Among his most well-known is “The Nazis ” an installation (and later a book) of photographs of actors like Clint Eastwood Marlon Brando Yul Brynner and David Niven glammed up in National Socialist costume a project that owes a strong debt to Susan Sontag’s important 1974 essay “Fascinating Fascism ” if without the corresponding intellectual rigor and moral unease." the artist Piotr Uklanski has relocated the classic American film from its familiar physical coordinates — the open range a Hollywood back lot — to an anonymous near-abstract space where the genre codes roam as free as the buffalo and the heroes and the villains play." which is to the filmmaker’s purpose. “Summer Love” isn’t a standard western but a series of loosely ordered vaguely chronological narrative shards and iconographic images that will be familiar to anyone who has a casual acquaintance with the genre. Thus instead of a story and plot there are fired guns dusty boots grizzled beards clanking spurs and galloping whinnying falling horses. Blood and booze and spit flow along with the scripted clichés spoken in Polish-accented English. One man builds a scaffold and fashions a noose another man loses his head and the barmaid loses her knickers. If this sounds like a Sergio Leone film it is kind of sort of if not as beautiful pleasurable or profound." something about the displacement of the American cowboy ideology though the film finally weighs in as more cynical and detached than passionate and engaged. In “Summer Love” the western is little more than a collection of disintegrated parts frayed bits and shabby pieces of some formerly coherent idea a vague suggestion of an ideal (democratic cinematic) that has become as blurred as a copy of a copy of a copy. Mr. Uklanski keeps the joke going even over the final credits with Lorne Greene the paterfamilias from the television western series “Bonanza ” growling the 1960s song “I’m a Gun.”  There’s something ominous about this kitsch ballad which is precisely the point." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/17/movies/17klim.html
attenuated speech and attitude of towering hauteur define a mannered acting style that is a technique unto itself. These imperious alter egos have little feeling for others who are depicted as helpless objects in the laboratory of a mad scientist." obsessive aesthetes in the thrall of demonic visions. And in “Klimt ” Raúl Ruiz’s lavish biographical fantasia his depiction of the Austrian symbolist painter Gustav Klimt adds another Mephistophelean figure to his gallery of elegant monsters." with images glimpsed in mirrors through camera lenses microscopes and one-way glass. The angular visual distortions suggest the world reflected in shards of a shattered mirror that may be a metaphor for the crumbling Habsburg Empire at the end of World War I. Eventually Klimt’s memories give way to hallucinations." many of whom he beds and rumors fly that he has sired 30 illegitimate children. In one phantasmagoric scene he and a friend visit a brothel in which they don gorilla masks to cavort in a cage with women wearing paste-on mustaches." it is gossip and scandal. Half the men in Vienna suffer from syphilis muses a doctor who is giving Klimt mercury treatments for that very disease." Ricardo Aronovich; edited by Valéria Sarmiento; music by Jorge Arriagada; production designers Rudi Czettel and Katharina Wöppermann; produced by Dieter Pochlatko Arno Ortmair Matthew Justice and Andreas Schmid; released by Outsider Pictures. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 97 minutes. This film is not rated." who died in 1918 at  55 joins Proust’s Baron de Charlus in Mr. Ruiz’s “Time Regained ” the silent film director F. W. Murnau in “Shadow of the Vampire ” Gilbert Osmond in “The Portrait of a Lady” and Valmont in “Dangerous Liaisons” in the roster of sinister Malkovich eccentrics all more or less interchangeable beneath their elaborate period get-ups." whom he meets in the 1900 Paris Expo where Klimt is awarded a gold medal for his work “Philosophy.” Méliès shows him a film clip of the dancer Lea de Castro (Saffron Burrows) who becomes Klimt’s muse and possibly his lover. Hovering throughout much of the movie is an unanswered question about the woman introduced to him as Lea. Is she really Lea or her double?" Veronica Ferres (Midi) Stephen Dillane (Secretary) Saffron Burrows (Lea de Castro) Nikolai Kinski (Egon Schiele) Joachim Bissmeier (Hugo Moritz) and Georges Méliès (Gunther Gillian)." ” to use a word bandied about in the film as a synonym for evil. The overstuffed salons of upper-class Vienna in the waning days of the Habsburg Empire are so cluttered with expensive ornaments that moving around feels like navigating inside a giant wedding cake." Klimt is still larger than life." and works like his most famous painting “The Kiss ” are not shown. The screenplay refers to the Vienna Secession the school of painting he led without explaining it." Klimt is shadowed by a character called the Secretary (Stephen Dillane) a puritanical censor and investigator into his murky finances who declares late in the movie that too little beauty is preferable to too much. In Paris Klimt’s intensely erotic paintings are viewed as deliciously naughty; in Vienna they are scandalous. Klimt’s blasé attitude toward all this high-flown nonsense is expressed in a frequently iterated expletive." but I imagine it was structurally more sound than the 97-minute blur of a movie that opens today  in New York. It’s not that Mr. Ruiz a Chilean-born surrealist based in Paris since 1973 is the most accessible of filmmakers to begin with. The shortened version is lovely to look at but the stilted dialogue and crude overdubbing in scenes where English is not spoken often make it an  impenetrable hodgepodge." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/17/movies/17jeru.html
000 against a million ” Ian Holm as David Ben Gurion announces fighting for dignity beneath a flurry of white hair. The tragedy of this film is that it’s difficult to care." this movie views the conflict through the eyes of two American friends a Jew (J. J. Feild) and an Arab (Saïd Taghmaoui). Touching on every bullet point — the 1946 bombing of the King David Hotel the United Nations vote to divide Palestine the following year — the filmmakers struggle for fairness and as a result most of the film’s ire is borne by the British who appear as pompous and callous wardens all too happy to cut and run." “O Jerusalem” quivers with choirs and soaring strings. Whether on a Middle Eastern battlefield or the streets of New York characters converse in stilted expository mouthfuls that smother emotion." based on the book by Dominique Lapierre and Larry Collins; director of photography Giovanni Fiore Coltellacci; edited by Jacques Witta and Franck Nakache; music by Stephen Endelman; produced by André Djaoui Mr. Chouraqui Jean-Charles Levy Jean Frydman and Andy Grosch; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. In Manhattan at the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 90 minutes." but “O Jerusalem” does this and worse. Shaping the founding of the State of Israel into a middle school history lesson — complete with textbook dialogue and strained neutrality — Elie Chouraqui’s clunking film would much rather bore than offend." Saïd Taghmaoui (Saïd Chahine) Ian Holm (Ben Gurion) and Tovah Feldshuh (Golda Meir)." and dialogue is butchered." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/13/movies/13marr.html
Sharon Leal (Dianne) Janet Jackson (Patricia) Malik Yoba (Gavin) Jill Scott (Sheila) Richard T. Jones (Mike) Tasha Smith (Angela) Michael J. White (Marcus) Denise Boutte (Trina) and Lamman Rucker (Troy)." in “Daddy’s Little Girls ” Mr. Perry abandoned the comic device of Madea to pursue a more serious dramatic structure. This trajectory continues in “Tyler Perry's Why Did I Get Married? ” a buppie ensemble piece featuring Mr. Perry at his most restrained and mainstream- accessible." “Why Did I Get Married?” benefits from one of the strongest casts of Mr. Perry’s career. Sharon Leal is terrific as a workaholic lawyer and ambivalent mother while Tasha Smith gives her aggrieved character a smart tart spin: she’s a welcome splash of acid among the sugar." “Why Did I Get Married?” follows four couples who meet each year for a therapeutic vacation. Friends since college they converge to discuss their relationships and address marital difficulties. This being a Tyler Perry film there is much to discuss; we also know there will be secrets revealed sermons delivered and forgiveness sought. Yet though every action is telegraphed — as are the moral lessons — Madea’s absence allows Mr. Perry to explore a less cartoonish universe. This time the humor is softer and the preaching less intrusive." ” then you’re a better woman than I am." “Diary of a Mad Black Woman ” was a surprise only to white America. For years  the talented Mr. Perry has been entertaining African-American audiences with his sentimental and hugely popular stage plays using a patented blend of Christian moralizing social melodrama and rambunctious comedy. The jokes may have been broader than the rump of his monstrous alter ego the matriarch Madea but his evangelical drive and sound commercial instincts have found a home among audiences hungry for a theater of the spirit." Toyomichi Kurita; edited by Maysie Hoy; production designer Ina Mayhew; produced by Mr. Perry and Reuben Cannon; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 118 minutes." as a well-meaning psychiatrist may be the most famous face on view the film’s tragic centerpiece is the toxic marriage of a cocky philanderer named Mike (Richard T. Jones) and his gentle overweight wife Sheila (a well-padded Jill Scott). In his cruelty and her self-effacement Mr. Perry touches chords of recognition and pain few writers dare to present without the shield of humor." commit adultery and generally behave like adults." a Tyler Perry movie is an interactive experience and “Why Did I Get Married?” is no exception. At the screening I attended it was often difficult to hear the dialogue between bouts of enthusiastic applause and shouts of “You go girl!”" along with Madea’s unfettered id are the thundering gospel ballads and revivalist atmosphere. In their place is a beautifully shot (by Toyomichi Kurita) fluid drama filled with compassionately written characters. Though still a stranger to subtlety Mr. Perry has learned to balance the obviousness of his setups with characters whose interactions feel genuine." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/13/movies/13jour.html
the film’s conscience and clown. Through her “Laaga” rejects tragedy and embraces its musical comedy heart. The Hindi title — literally “a stain on my veil” — means “fallen woman.” But here Badki gets back up becoming with her sister that special thing: the modern Indian woman." melodrama and feminist fairy tale “Laaga Chunari Mein Daag” shows Bollywood’s moral universe in transition." Chutki insists on honesty and that the family reintegrate Badki." Badki — with no diploma and no skills — becomes Natasha: a high-priced prostitute. The movie isn’t coy about this. “I’ve fallen from grace ” she says. “I can never come back.”" sisters from a genteel Benares family with money problems and predatory relatives. When Badki leaves to find work in Bombay (as everyone in the film still calls the sin city currently known as Mumbai) “Laaga” really takes off." she joins her sister in the city where she gets a job in advertising. Her first task is to sell Lux soap to the modern Indian woman. And who is that creature? As her boss (and future husband) discovers Chutki herself — bright spunky self-assured — fits the bill." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/12/movies/12terr.html
you might mistake the first part of “Terror’s Advocate” for a portrait in political heroism.  The child of a Vietnamese mother and a father from Réunion a French outpost in the Indian Ocean Mr. Vergès came of age in the French Resistance and then in the anti-colonialist movement. His ideals were impeccable." civilized mouthpiece for members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and the Red Army Faction in Germany defending their bloodiest actions as the work of “soldiers in a noble cause.” (It is not clear that he would say the same thing about Mr. Barbie killer and torturer of Jews and Resistance fighters in World War II or about Slobodan Milosevic another client. But then again it’s not clear that he wouldn’t.)" with English subtitles; directors of photography Caroline Champetier and Jean-Luc Perréard; edited by Nelly Quettier; music by Jorge Arriagada; produced by Rita Dagher; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 132 minutes. This film is not rated." on May 8 1945 — V-E Day — massacred thousands of demonstrators on the streets of Sétif and other Algerian cities. A decade later Mr. Vergès was in Algiers defending members of the Algerian independence movement including bombers recruited by Saadi Yacef who would go on to play himself in “The Battle of Algiers” and who shares some reminiscences with Mr. Schroeder in this film. One of the most famous bombers was Djamila Bouhired a kind of Pasionaria of the anti-colonialist struggle whom Mr. Vergès later married." but so were those of the French occupiers who tortured suspected militants and ordered the assassination of their representatives including Mr. Vergès. As the film traces his subsequent career though it begins to seem as if Mr. Vergès would ally himself with anyone willing to plant a bomb or hijack a plane in the name of the oppressed." clients and comrades in various causes and most of the journalists and scholars called in to testify range from scrupulously neutral to implicitly sympathetic. Mr. Schroeder’s methods of documentation are thorough and objective and the extent and doggedness of his research are remarkable. His crew speaks with old lions of the Algerian resistance with aging militants of the European new left and even with Carlos himself the mysterious Venezuelan terrorist mastermind who chats by telephone from a French prison. Mr. Schroeder’s only obvious manipulation is in his use of Jorge Arriagada’s  score which gives “Terror’s Advocate” the sinister foreboding ambience of a thriller." morally unsettling political thrillers in quite some time with the extra advantage of being true. Mr. Vergès who all but vanished for eight years in the 1970s who tried to steal Carlos’s girlfriend who is more of a celebrity than a pariah in France is a character worthy of Graham Greene or Joseph Conrad. He’s far too subtle and strange for the average Hollywood potboiler-maker. And he is lucky (though he might not think so) to have found so capable a chronicler as Mr. Schroeder whose previous real-life subjects include Claus von Bülow (played by Jeremy Irons in “Reversal of Fortune”) and Idi Amin (playing himself in the documentary “General Idi Amin Dada”)." ” he says explaining his decision to join de Gaulle and fight the Germans “France was Montaigne Diderot the Revolution and it was intolerable to me that that could disappear.”" Mr. Schroeder writes a rich and disturbing chapter in the history of political violence in our time a story in which the pursuit of justice leads down the crooked path of nihilism." a well-known French lawyer whose clients have included Klaus Barbie and Carlos the Jackal does show himself in the long interviews that are the backbone of Mr. Schroeder’s film to be charming as well as eloquent and witty. Sitting in the mellow light and elegant décor of his office brandishing what must be a very fine cigar he is sometimes candid sometimes sly and never at a loss for words." ” Barbet Schroeder’s astonishing new documentary — he is playing down the genocide perpetrated by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia in the 1970s. Of course terrible things happened he says making use of the rhetorical tactic favored by revisionists and deniers of all stripes but let’s not exaggerate. And this attitude is what you might expect from someone who counts Pol Pot the principal author of the Cambodian slaughter as one of his old friends. Charming." out of sequence in a story that stretches from World War II into the 1990s seems like an attempt to inoculate the audience against Mr. Vergès’s powers of seduction as well as a foreshadowing of the film’s case against him." as he moves from the nationalism of the National Liberation Front through the Marxism of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and the Red Army Faction toward the radical Islamism of his later Iranian-backed clients continues to speak in the soothing familiar idiom of humanism. And also in the relaxed self-satisfied tones of a man who believes himself a hero even in a movie that proves otherwise." including documents from the files of the East German secret police to suggest that Mr. Vergès was much more than the favorite lawyer  of some of the world’s most notorious terrorists. Mr. Vergès’s involvement with Carlos which he minimizes when he is not bragging about it is particularly intriguing. And his association with François Genoud a Swiss Nazi and financier of terrorism is downright chilling." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/12/movies/12sleu.html
which starred Mr. Caine as the bedroom interloper and Laurence Olivier as his wily match. Milo (inexplicably) visits Andrew’s estate; Andrew (unpersuasively) coaxes Milo into a crime; Milo (unbelievably) retaliates; and so it goes amid much twisting and turning of the meta-variety sort." lazy self-regard you could not improve on Harold Pinter’s redo of the 1970 Anthony Shaffer play “Sleuth ” which Kenneth Branagh has used to remake the 1972 Joseph L. Mankiewicz film of the same title. (Got that?) The result is that what was once insignificant is now insufferable though at 86 minutes almost an hour shorter." but at this point in his screen career it’s safe to say he has no feel or facility for cinema when he’s calling the shots behind the camera. Almost every setup looks wrong: poorly considered awkwardly realized ugly. (The cinematographer Haris Zambarloukos has done fine work elsewhere.) Mr. Branagh fiddles with the lights tilts the camera and hustles his hard-working actors upstairs and down and back again and into an elevator as small as a coffin built for one. He embellishes the screenplay’s every obvious conceit and word hammering the point until you feel as if you’re trapped inside the elevator with Milo and Andrew going up and down and up and down though nowhere in particular." ” Andrew asks in Mr. Schaffer’s original play “would you agree that the detective story is the normal recreation of noble minds?” Milo or really the playwright replies “Perhaps it would have been truer to say that noble minds are the normal recreation of the detective story.” Mr. Pinter more or less recycles these lines thereby erecting a bridge between him and Agatha Christie whom depending on your view Mr. Shaffer either robbed or parodied." a hairdresser and sometime actor who’s having an affair with the  wife of a famous novelist and full-time sadist Andrew Wyke played by Michael Caine. Milo is young lovely and because he’s played by the talented Mr. Law a pleasant screen presence. Andrew is decades older wattled and grooved and because he’s played by the talented Mr. Caine equally fun to watch even when he’s as badly lighted as he often is here. Both are less pleasing to listen to largely because they’ve been enlisted to enliven a story reeking of mothballs and sexual panic and designed to titillate the audience by putting its two lab rats into an electrified maze. Zap! Zap! Sizzle!" from the play by Anthony Shaffer and screenplay by Harold Pinter; director of photography Haris  Zambarloukos; edited by Neil Farrell; music by Patrick Doyle; production designer Tim Harvey; produced by Jude Law Simon Halfon Tom Sternberg Marion Pilowsky Mr. Branagh and Simon Moseley; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 86 minutes." which adds screens within screens (some in green-hued night vision) though nothing of actual  thematic interest. The performers  tend to deliver the airless self-consciously synthetic dialogue like untutored violinists dutifully sawing away to the steady tick-tock of a metronome. On occasion there’s a flourish of realism as one or the other approximates a human being rather than a dramatic contrivance. This happens infrequently mostly when the two men  are raising their voices and intimately grappling with the story’s tiresome sexual dynamics which suggest a link between sadism and homosexual desire. Here a brandished gun comes loaded with symbolic import not just bullets." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/12/movies/12nigh.html
the life begins to leak out of “We Own the Night ” and especially out of Mr. Phoenix’s performance. In the actor’s case this seems deliberate as if he had chosen to interpret grief as a form of petrifaction. His elbows and shoulders stiffen and he lumbers across the sets like a Frankenstein monster. Even his tongue seems paralyzed. Mr. Gray meanwhile strides manfully into a thicket of clichés and heavy grandiosity." drug use and abundant profanity." though — especially in those earlier scenes when Bobby and Joseph are at each other’s throats (and Bobby and Amada are in each other’s pants) and in a brilliantly executed car chase later on —  “We Own the Night” demonstrates a rough lived-in authority and an unpretentious sense of craft. In his previous films “Little Odessa” (another grim story involving the Russian mob) and “The Yards” (an unjustly neglected tale of political corruption) Mr. Gray evoked the urban crime dramas of earlier eras without being showy or self-conscious about it. And there is certainly nothing fancy or gimmicky about this movie." at least at first wildly contrasting temperaments as well as divergent career choices. Joseph takes after their father Burt (Robert Duvall) a high-ranking officer who can barely contain his disappointment and disgust when Bobby is in the room. But Bobby while he may be as irresponsible as his father and brother think he is also has a sweet impulsive hedonistic side. He shows it in an early scene of sexual bliss with his girlfriend Amada (Eva Mendes) and in the way he bounces through his cavernous club and into the apartment of its owner a grandfatherly Russian named Buzhayev. Bobby is loving and also lovable." ” policemen and criminals belong to competitive organizations locked in uneasy permanent coexistence. In “We Own the Night ”  James Gray’s operatic new film the police and drug dealers are imagined as warring tribes in a fight to the death. The Russian gangsters on one side appear ready to take out the entire N.Y.P.D. (“We get them all!”) And some of the cops are just as eager to forgo the legal niceties and do some righteous killing of their own (“Wipe ’em out. No survivors.”)." either. “We Own the Night ” which takes its title from the slogan of the N.Y.P.D.’s street crime unit is set in 1988 a wilder and more dangerous time in the city’s history (though perhaps not quite so wild and dangerous as Mr. Gray makes it seem). But in spite of a few historically apt musical selections and a digitally enhanced cameo appearance by former Mayor Ed Koch this is less a period movie than an exercise in free-floating nostalgia." within the film’s fatalistic universe a traitor or at least a prodigal who must be brought back into the fold. Much as he may revel in the company of his surrogate family — the Buzhayev clan is warm and welcoming and Bobby’s sidekick Jumbo (Danny Hoch) is a bubbly fountain of brotherly affection — the claims of blood are always stronger. And once Mr. Buzhayev’s gangster nephew Vadim (Alex Veadov) causes Joseph to be hurt Bobby puts away his childish sense of fun and gets down to the grim business of settling scores." one that flourishes in the collective fantasy life fed by television and the movies. The problem with “We Own the Night” is that it mistakes sentiment for profundity and takes its ideas about character and fate more seriously than it takes its characters and their particular fates. “I feel light as a feather ” Bobby says in a crucial scene at which point the movie starts to sink like a stone." but rather for a mythical tribal America where the obligations of clan trump individual desires. Authority in this world is patriarchal: Women are always being told to leave the room mind the children or wait in the car. An index of Bobby’s betrayal is that he has adopted his mother’s maiden name and his attempt to escape into a life of easy pleasure social mobility and self-invention is doomed from the start. Where he ends up is where he always belonged." “We Own the Night” is not a procedural in which the narrative is threaded through details of the job and close observations of big-city life. It is rather a bloody passionate melodrama self-consciously Shakespearean — or Biblical or Greek take your pick of atavisms — in its intentions. At the center are two brothers: Joseph Grusinsky (Mark Wahlberg) a clean-cut ambitious family man rising quickly through the ranks of the department and Bobby Green (Joaquin Phoenix) who has forsaken the family surname and who manages a raucous nightclub in Brooklyn." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/12/movies/12nakespan.ready.html
Jason Currie Jaymes Hodges Joseph Keane Anthony Manough Ethan Le Phong Joe Souza Kevin Stea Salvatore Vassallo and Vincent Zamora." Stephen Bates; staged and choreographed by Mr. Christian; conceived by Mr. Schrock; music and lyrics by Shelley Markham David Pevsner Mark Savage Rayme Sciaroni Mark Winkler Marie Cain Binyumen (Ben) Schaechter with additional lyrics by Bruce Vilanch; directors of photography Jerry L. Evans and Mr. Christian; edited by Mr. Christian; production designer Chris Anthony Miller; produced by Darryl Anderle and Ilo Orleans; released by TLA Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 95 minutes. This film is not rated." ” with its complete lack of sleaze is more likely to have you pondering the cast members’ skin care routines than their vital statistics. And though stage shows are always best experienced in their natural habitat few will benefit as much as this one from the eventual consolations of “pause” and “zoom.”" the film simply restages the popular revue that since its 1998 Los Angeles premiere has taken bouncing genitalia to raunch-deprived audiences worldwide. Alternately campy and coy smirky and serious the 16 original songs (newly arranged by Troy Christian) celebrate the male anatomy — and the gay lifestyle — with playful wit and unabashed explicitness. Sound quality is excellent; whether extolling the delights of a bris or the anxiety of a high-school locker room every penile synonym rings clear." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/12/movies/12lars.html
often by way of sports flicks though no one sold this type of canned hokum like the old-school professionals. “Lars and the Real Girl” is an independently financed enterprise which mainly means that it stars Ryan Gosling as Lars has been padded out with actors whose faces will be more familiar than their names and was produced with an eye for thrift with modest sets and Ontario locations. It was written by Nancy Oliver who  regularly contributed to the HBO series “Six Feet Under ” and directed by the relative newcomer Craig Gillespie whose only other official credit is the recently released big-studio comedy with Billy Bob Thornton called “Mr. Woodcock.”" the  British critic Kenneth Tynan sounded a familiar note. Modern American drama he had discovered is a family affair. Always there is the “confused adolescent boy just awakening to the eternal mysteries of stud poker.” There’s “a strange stammering poetry” to this boy who is  right on track for “an emotional upheaval.”  There is also “comic relief” in the form of friends and neighbors though in time we learn that “their lives too are founded on pain and insecurity and lack of togetherness.”" and if the filmmakers had pushed  into the realm of nervous truth had   given Lars and the town folk sustained shadows not just cute tics and teary moments it might have worked. Instead the film is palatable audience bait of average accomplishment that superficially recalls the plain style of Alexander Payne but without any of the lacerating edges or moral ambiguity. Lars’s anguish has nothing to do with the loneliness of small towns or alienation in the modern world or even real pain; unlike the characters in Mr. Payne’s films he suffers without disquieting fuss or messy fluids. His infatuation with Bianca inspires clucks of sympathy and a little confusion but the priest smiles indulgently as do the old ladies." but at least one of Lars’s co-workers surfs through the Internet’s racier offerings. This is how Lars comes to buy Bianca a life-size doll with a ready mouth and monumental bust. The doll has something hiding under her skirt but we never see Lars playing peekaboo because this is a story about innocence not sad sacks having their weird way with artificial vaginas. More pointedly the film means to be about  the generous spirit of everyday folks who when their 27-year-old neighborhood loner with a funny grin begins lugging around a plastic sex doll open their hearts and minds to them both — never mind the previous years of neglect that probably helped make Lars a little loony." just courtship." Adam Kimmel; edited by Tatiana S. Riegel; music by David Torn; production designer Arv Grewal; produced by Sidney Kimmel John Cameron and Sarah Aubrey; released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer Pictures. Running time: 106 minutes." with the usual complement of pathologies and predicaments it created a recognizable lived-in world that balanced individual concerns against larger social issues. The specific flowed into the general and back out again. In “Lars and the Real Girl ” the general has been banished as it too often is in American independent cinema. The film is set in an anonymous Midwestern town with pretty  clapboard houses a busy church bustling stores and even a hopping bowling alley that’s so removed from the larger world from Iraq Hillary Rush and Britney it might as well be  in deep space. It’s America shrink-wrapped." the film is about a sensitive young loner (“sensitive as a snail’s horn ” to steal another stinger from Tynan) who heaves hurt by the bucket but finally burrows into the warm welcoming embrace of his community. It’s part comedy part tragedy and 100 percent pure calculation designed to wring fat tears and coax big laughs and leave us drying our damp smiling faces as we savor the touching vision of American magnanimity. It holds a flattering mirror up to us that erases every distortion." Emily Mortimer (Karin) Paul Schneider (Gus) Kelli Garner (Margo) Patricia Clarkson (Dagmar) Nancy Beatty (Mrs. Gruner) Maxwell McCabe-Lokos (Kurt) and Karen Robinson (Cindy)." particularly by Paul Schneider and Emily Mortimer as Lars’s brother and sister-in-law. Mr. Gosling fares less happily. With the exception of a delicate moment when Lars sways in a darkened room his eyes squeezed shut in private reverie the performance is a rare miscalculation in a mostly brilliant career. Lars is a difficult maybe impossible character a holy fool and a martyr in waiting a subject of mockery and a  means of redemption. With his awkward manner and solitary habits he comes across as more stunted than damaged soft rather than hurt. Mr. Gosling smiles his goofy smile and begs for attention but he never fills this conceit with life. Lars too is a doll as pliable as Bianca and just as phony." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/12/movies/12khad.html
an anthropologist and documentarian and Jessica Woodworth a former journalist “Khadak” is a trippy spectacle. It boldly tries to find visuals to describe complex metaphysical and political concepts. But the results often suggest aestheticized eye candy along the lines of Ken Russell’s “Altered States” or Godfrey Reggio’s  “Koyaanisqatsi” and its sequels." muddled and gorgeous “Khadak” tells the story of an epileptic Mongolian sheepherder named Bagi (Batzul Khayankhyarvaa) who embraces his destiny as a shaman when his village is threatened. Shot on arid steppes in rural villages and amid the remains of monolithic Soviet-era buildings it has ecological and religious dimensions and a hero who undergoes several transformations." with English subtitles) by Peter Brosens and Jessica Woodworth; director of photography Rimvydas Leipus; edited by Nico Leunen; music by Altan Urag Dominique Lawalrée Michel Schöpping Christian Fennesz and J. S. Bach; production designer Agi Dawaachu; produced by Byamba Sakhya (Mongolia) and Od Howell (Europe); released by LifeSize Entertainment. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 104 minutes. This film is not rated." Tsetsegee Byamba (Zolzaya) Damchaa Banzar (the Grandfather) and Tserendarizav Dashnyam (the Shamaness)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/12/movies/12gold.html
her former brother-in-law (Jordi Molla) who wants to dethrone the Protestant queen by igniting  a Catholic-led holy war. The resulting conspiracy with its ominous monks and Latin chants reeks of “The Da Vinci Code ” as well as a more urgently modern struggle." Remi Adefarasin; edited by Jill Bilcock; music by Craig Armstrong and Ar Rahman; production designer Guy Hendrix Dyas; produced by Tim Bevan Eric Fellner and Jonathan Cavendish; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 115 minutes." who put Ms. Blanchett through her flouncing paces in “Elizabeth ” the rather more restrained 1998 film about the monarch’s earlier years doesn’t spend much time pondering the Sapphic possibilities mostly because he has armies to unleash conspiracies to uncork and one head to lop off (Samantha Morton as Mary Stuart).  Even so despite the hurried sporadically  frantic pace there are a few nice moments in which Elizabeth uses Bess and  Raleigh  as erotic puppets turning them into expressions of her own masculine and feminine selves as if she were a child playing naughty with Barbie and Ken. In her spectral face you see a lonely soul trying to hold onto sanity to a thread of real life." Geoffrey Rush (Francis Walsingham) Clive Owen (Walter Raleigh) Rhys Ifans (Robert Reston) Jordi Molla (King Philip II of Spain) Abbie Cornish (Bess Throckmorton) and Samantha Morton (Mary Stuart)." he’s toting a trunk of New World goodies including some tobacco leaves that when smoked he promises with an insinuating smile are very “stimulating.” Hearing that Raleigh has named a swath of New World land Virginia in her honor Elizabeth seems exceedingly eager for stimulation. She may be a virgin or virginesque but she’s far from cloistered.  She surrounds herself with female pets (“My  bitches  wear my collars”) the loveliest of whom is Bess Throckmorton (Abbie Cornish). Bess holds the queenly hand caresses the royal head and keeps the imperial body intimate company suggesting that Elizabeth abandoned the metaphoric sword but not the chalice." ” the filmmakers flirt suggestively with the idea that the English  or perhaps the English-speaking world is  engaged in another holy war against another set of radical fundamentalists. By the time the Spanish Armada has set sail for England and Elizabeth has donned armor and a flowing red wig to rouse her waiting troops to victory the suggestive has become explicit. Declaiming from atop her white horse her legs now conspicuously parted as she straddles the jittery stamping animal she invokes God and country blood and honor life and death bringing to mind at once Joan of Arc Henry V Winston Churchill and Tony Blair in one gaspingly unbelievable cinematically climactic moment. The queenly body quakes as history and fantasy explode." booming guns and wild energy “Elizabeth: The Golden Age” tells if  more often shouts the story of the bastard monarch who ruled England with an iron grip and two tightly closed legs. It’s the story of a woman who as played by the irresistibly watchable Cate Blanchett as David Bowie in his Ziggy Stardust period sublimated her libidinal energies through court intrigue until she found sweet relief by violently bringing the Spanish Empire to its  knees." which begins in 1585 when Queen Elizabeth hit  52 though the film seems to put her closer to 38 Ms. Blanchett’s actual age.  The blurring of fact and fancy is of course routine with this kind of opulent big-screen production in which  the finer points of history  largely take a back seat to personal melodrama and  lavish details of  production design and costumes. In this regard  “The Golden Age” may set a standard for such  an adulterated form: it’s reductive distorted and deliriously far-fetched but the gowns are fabulous the wigs are a sight and Clive Owen makes a dandy Errol Flynn even if he’s really meant to be Walter Raleigh the queen’s favorite smoldering slab of man meat." one head falls." whether he’s revving Elizabeth up with his tales of seafaring adventure nuzzling a swooning supplicant or hanging off a ship’s rigging as the wind gently stirs his chest hair. With his seafaring movie tan and muscular physicality he matches up well against the forceful Ms. Blanchett whose strange beauty adds to the queen’s otherworldly affect. The Elizabeth of this film bears little relation to the flushed young woman of the first film who had not yet been unmoored from the merely mortal. The spring lamb is no more and with her Kabuki-white mask and palace rituals this older ethereal Elizabeth on occasion seems like a space alien which in some ways is what she has become." “The Golden Age” has sweep and momentum and almost as many mood shifts and genre notes as the queen has dresses. It’s intentionally playful and an inadvertent giggle an overripe melodrama that’s by turns a bodice-ripper a cloak-and-dagger thriller and a serious-minded historical drama with dubious contemporary overtones." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/12/movies/12corn.html
Greene Iowa. After moving there with Mr. Woolf Mr. Ellis’s cousin the partners cultivated an acre of corn applied for government subsidies chose seed and herbicide rented equipment and followed their crop through harvest and into the marketplace." all the time spent on autobiographical detail and personal banter hampers the film’s urgency and plays like an awkward attempt to justify a format that the filmmakers are too self-effacing to exploit." including professors and nutritionists who believe that the corn industry enables America’s obesity epidemic by means of its high-fructose corn syrup and Earl Butz the former secretary of agriculture whom the film credits with creating the modern subsidy system which guarantees huge crop surpluses." Aaron Woolf and his co-producers and subjects Ian Cheney and Curt Ellis have tried to make it so with “King Corn ” a cultural and scientific history of the crop. Their film is a gentle meandering entry in the Truth-Seeking Comic Hero genre as practiced by Michael Moore and Morgan Spurlock." Sam Cullman Mr. Woolf and Ian Cheney; edited by Jeffrey K. Miller; music by the WoWz with Bo Ramsey and Spencer Chakedis; produced by Mr. Woolf Mr. Cheney and Curt Ellis; released by Balcony Releasing. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 88 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/12/movies/12canv.html
who works in construction into debt. The movie gives only a taste of the stress he undergoes dealing with insurance companies. His patience is tested when Mary like so many schizophrenics refuses to take her medication. Chris has nightmares that reflect his fear of having inherited his mother’s illness." a tougher more realistic movie would probably be close to unbearably painful.  Below the film’s sugar coating is an inner core of integrity and goodness. All three Marinos are noble everyday people visited by horror. Think of “Canvas” as a Lifetime movie: a likable one." which she explains quiets the voices inside her head and to John’s construction of a sailboat in the backyard as a present for her. Chris also develops a profitable sideline sewing custom-made patched shirts for his classmates and experiences puppy love for the first time." through some combination of devotion and inner resilience almost never rises to the bait when Mary becomes shrill and irrational. But even he has his limits. Chris being younger isn’t so patient. When his mother embarrasses him in front of his peers he half blames her and wants to escape. In her more lucid moments Mary is mortified by her behavior." Marcia Gay Harden (Mary Marino) Devon Gearhart (Chris Marino) Paul Lasa (Hector) Marcus Johns (Sam) and Sophia Bairley (Dawn)." the 10-year-old son of Mary and her husband John (Joe Pantoliano) returns to his family’s home in Hollywood Fla. Chris had been staying with relatives while his mother was hospitalized and almost immediately it becomes clear that her mental stability is hanging by a thread.  As she becomes delusional then paranoid you share her husband’s sinking feeling that it’s always going to be this way and his frustration at finding that his love is powerless against demons with whom there is no reasoning." ” Joseph Greco’s drama about schizophrenia is obviously a labor of love. In his director’s note Mr. Greco writes “I grew up watching my mother battle schizophrenia and those harrowing memories had a profound impact on me.” He adds that a screenwriting professor once told him “Write what you know.” That advice has resulted in a movie that rings emotionally true despite structural contrivances and dim washed-out color." the afflicted mother is portrayed by the gifted Marcia Gay Harden “Canvas” never threatens to become the kind of quasi-horror film that movies about the mentally ill tend to be. Cast in a role that would tempt many actresses to indulge in  award-seeking histrionics Ms. Harden underplays Mary’s recurrent symptoms until the last moment. When the voices that periodically torment her return her ears prick up and her eyes dart as expectancy mingles with fear that rapidly escalates to panic.  Even when she erupts you sense the human being in pain huddled inside the  uncontrollably raving creature." the neighbors’ tolerance evaporates. How does life go on? Well somehow it does." Rob Sweeney; edited by Nina Kawasaki; music by Joel Goodman; production designer Bill Cimino; produced by Sharon Lane Adam Hammel Lucy Hammel Joe Pantoliano and Bill Erfurth. Running time: 101 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/10/movies/10cont.html
and it declines to find an easy moral either in Joy Division’s rapid rise or in its lead singer’s early death. These are things that happened both on the intimate stage of individual life and in the larger arena of popular culture. Mr. Corbijn no doubt aware of what this movie will mean to devotees of post-punk melancholy sticks to the human dimensions of the narrative rather than turning out yet another show business fable. You don’t have to know anything about Joy Division to grasp the mysterious sorrow at its heart." hollow-eyed and gentle-looking is crucial to the film’s effectiveness. Since Mr. Curtis is known more by his deep plangent voice than by his face or his physical presence Mr. Riley does not labor under the burden of mimicry like the recent portrayers of more famous singers like Ray Charles or Johnny Cash. His performance is quiet charismatic and a little opaque in keeping with the movie’s careful detached approach to its subject." to their credit do not presume to probe the depths of Mr. Curtis’s psychology or to find the hidden emotional sources of his songs. Instead their film shows plainly and sufficiently how those songs were made. They were written down in a notebook practiced with the rest of the band and then performed in front of ever larger and more ecstatic audiences." playing Mr. Curtis’s wife Deborah (on whose 1995 memoir “Touching From a  Distance ” the film is based) provides a necessary measure of hurt and warmth reminding the audience that Ian Curtis’s great subject as a writer was heartbreak." he marries Deborah and becomes a father just as Joy Division is recording its first album. He begins to suffer from epileptic seizures  and to worry that the medicine he takes to treat the condition will affect his moods and his mind. He also falls for a Belgian journalist named Annik Honoré (Alexandra Maria Lara) and love tears him apart again." when we first encounter him Ian Curtis (Sam Riley) is a lanky schoolboy in Macclesfield a red-brick English town outside of Manchester with intense but not unusual interests. Apart from cigarettes and his best friend’s girlfriend (whom he will shortly marry) these are mainly musical and literary. In his debut film “Control ” about the last seven years of Mr. Curtis’s life Anton Corbijn notes some of the figures in the young man’s personal canon — the expected proto-punk culture heroes (David Bowie Lou Reed J. G. Ballard) yes but also William Wordsworth whose “Ode: Intimations of Immortality”  Mr. Curtis quotes from memory." from its very first frame “Control” is shadowed by intimations of its main character’s imminent mortality. Mr. Curtis the lead singer in Joy Division the great post-punk Manchester quartet committed suicide in 1980 just before the band was to embark on its first American tour. He was 23 and in the years since his death he has become a canonical figure in his own right. Even as Joy Division’s austere brooding songs — “Love Will Tear Us Apart ” “Isolation ” “She’s Lost Control” — have continued to influence musicians from all corners of the musical cosmos they have lost very little of their glum haunting power." the screenwriter and Mr. Corbijn a celebrity photographer who took pictures of the real Joy Division a few months before Mr. Curtis died is how to tell this story of great promise and early death without turning it into yet another exercise in pop martyrology. How in other words to take account of Mr. Curtis’s artistic life and its premature end without treating them as simple cause and effect. The worst and most common failing in movies of this kind — biographies of artists musicians in particular — is that they turn creativity into a symptom and fate into pathology. One of the great virtues of “Control”  is that it does not fall into this trap. Where it might have been literal-minded and sentimental it is instead enigmatic and moving much in the manner of Joy Division’s best songs." Samantha Morton (Deborah Curtis) Alexandra Maria Lara (Annik Honoré) Joe Anderson (Hooky) James Anthony Pearson (Bernard Sumner) Harry Treadaway (Steve Morris) Craig Parkinson (Tony Wilson) and Toby Kebbell (Rob Gretton)." based on the book “Touching From a Distance” by Deborah Curtis; director of photography Martin Ruhe; edited by Andrew Hulme; production designer Chris Roope; produced by Mr. Corbijn Orian Williams and Todd Eckert; released by the Weinstein Company. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of  Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 121 minutes." available to any listener with a good reason to want a few minutes of voluptuous bad feeling. In tracing them back to their origins Mr. Corbijn resists the temptation to pile on the evocative period details or to wallow in nostalgia for the early days of the Manchester scene. Shot in a pale Nouvelle Vague black-and-white palette “Control” manages to be both stylized and straightforward avoiding overstatement even as it generates considerable intensity." flawlessly performed by Mr. Riley and the other members of the cast (Joe Anderson on bass James Anthony Pearson on guitar and Harry Treadaway as the wisecracking drummer) who turned themselves into an uncannily persuasive tribute band. (Just how good they are may not become fully apparent until you hear the real Joy Division’s version of “Atmosphere” over the end credits.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/10/movies/10gold.html
did he take the eye patch off?” she muses. She’s not the only one." Ms. Harper leads us through the tumultuous life of this Ukraine-born Wisconsin-raised woman who was determined to be more than a “parlor Zionist.” While archival film and original artwork alternate on a green screen behind her the actress performs multiple roles — including those of Henry A. Kissinger and  Meir’s husband Morris Meyerson — always returning to that of an old woman facing death with a heavy heart and an unquiet mind." based on his play; director of photography Jacek Laskus; edited by David Kashevaroff; music by Yuval Ron; produced by Tony Cacciotti. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 92 minutes. This film is not rated." ” a one-woman tour of the life and conscience of Israel’s fourth prime minister. That question is the driving force of Jeremy Kagan’s inert yet strangely compelling film (adapted by William Gibson from his Broadway play) whose overall rueful tone is explained by the answer: “It kills.”" particularly in its wry reflections on the prime minister’s doomed marriage and her wicked interest in the love life of her defense minister Moshe Dayan." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/06/movies/06nois.html
billed as Omarion Grandberry) is a struggling Harlem rapper in trouble with the police and a thug whose hubcaps he tried to steal. When the heat proves too strong he is sent to live with his long-estranged father Roberto (a fine Giancarlo Esposito) and his stepmother in Puerto Rico." ” far more than its indefensibly generic title suggests. Its milieu is fascinating; its melodrama — about a rising performer’s tribulations — less so." Alejandro Chomski skillfully contrasts Manhattan neutrals with San Juan pastels; a Puerto Rican Day Parade sequence (spotlighting in a fleeting self-serving shot Ms. Lopez) has texture; and there’s no resisting reggaetón’s seductive throb. But Mr. Grandberry  has only two guns in his emotional holster: sullen and boyish inadequate for anchoring the movie." Zoran Popovic; edited by Bill Pankow; music by Andres Levin; production designer Monica Monserrate; produced by Sofia Sondervan Jennifer Lopez and Simon Fields; released by TriStar Pictures and Sony/BMG Film. Running time: 87 minutes." thanks to his stepbrother Javi (Victor Rasuk) a turn-tablist who shares his ambitions he discovers reggaetón the genre that melds hip-hop reggae and Latin rhythms. He also meets the bewitching dancer C. C. (Zulay Henao looking like a younger version of  Jennifer Lopez who is one of the film’s producers)." as a middle-aged predator) Rob C. C. and Javi head to New York where Rob must face his past and his future." Zulay Henao (C. C.) James McCaffrey (Jeffrey Skylar) Kellita Smith (Tanya) Malik Yoba (the Mayor) Melonie Diaz (Mimi) Victor Rasuk (Javi) and Giancarlo Esposito (Roberto)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05stra.html
fact and impression “Strange Culture” molds one man’s tragedy into an engrossing narrative experiment that defies categorization." Hartford and Columbus Ohio" “Strange Culture” is a near-perfect alignment of subject and form. In its creative assessment of our current judicial climate the need for artistic freedom has seldom seemed so urgent." directed and edited by Lynn Hershman Leeson; director of photography Hiro Narita; music by the Residents; produced by Lise Swenson Steven Beer and Ms. Leeson; released by L5 Productions. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 75 minutes. This film is not rated." Tilda Swinton (Hope Kurtz) Steve Kurtz (Himself) Peter Coyote (Robert Ferrell) Josh Kornbluth (Phil/Lynn Hershman) and Shoresh Alaudini (Loren)." the writer and director Lynn Hershman Leeson bends the nonfiction form to her own unconventional will. Her actors fall in and out of character discuss their interpretations with the real Mr. Kurtz (who also appears in the film) and even speak to us directly. The result is a fascinating collage of re-enactments news clips and interviews illuminating not only the implications of corporate meddling in the food chain but the ease with which innocent civilian behavior — like using tinfoil as a window shade — can become a suspicious act." an associate professor of art at the State University of New York Buffalo was preparing an exhibition on genetically modified food for the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art when his wife Hope (Tilda Swinton) died in her sleep of heart failure. But when paramedics noticed petri dishes and other scientific paraphernalia in the home they alerted the F.B.I.; within hours Mr. Kurtz found himself suspected of bioterrorism his home quarantined and his wife’s body removed for autopsy." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05clay.html
who smartly moved away from star-making nonsense like “The Peacemaker” as soon as he could has in recent years proved that it’s possible to play outwardly different seemingly contradictory roles (glamorous righteous) while hopscotching from Hollywood to Darfur and back. You have to be clever to pull this off and you have to have clever friends like Steven Soderbergh with whom Mr. Clooney created the production company Section Eight. Now defunct Section Eight dropped bombs uncorked bubbles supported independent voices and mucked about in television (“K Street”). With “Syriana ” “Good Night and Good Luck ” “The Good German” and now “Michael Clayton ” it also helped Mr. Clooney create a singularly contemporary screen identity as a man of unquiet conscience." adult sincere intelligent absorbing; it entertains without shame. Mr. Gilroy directs with a steady hand and a steady eye too with none of the visual frenzy that characterizes the “Bourne” thrillers. His movie moves rather than races. There’s a little narrative tricky business (a sizable portion of the story occurs in extended flashback) and an unexpectedly tender moment when Michael stares into a new morning in a country field without uttering a single word. Mr. Gilroy’s characters talk a lot (they’re lawyers after all) but he knows when to shut them up an exception being a disappointingly tidy climactic encounter that seems designed to give Mr. Clooney the last rousing word or maybe just a shot at an Oscar." Robert Elswit; edited by John Gilroy; music by James Newton Howard; production designer Kevin Thompson; produced by Sydney Pollack Jennifer Fox Steven Samuels and Kerry Orent; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 119 minutes." the other guy.) “Michael Clayton” marks his debut as a director a gig that seems to have inspired him to watch (rewatch) old Sidney Lumet films. Though Michael is more upscale smoother around the edges (he probably doesn’t own white tube socks) he’s a variation on those soulfully alone Lumet cops and lawyers who fight the system and struggle to do the right thing though not necessarily because they want to. The world Michael wanders is so darkly sinister as perilous as that in Mr. Lumet’s “Q & A ” that his black coat and suit melt into shadows as depthless as an abyss." Mr. Gilroy suggests largely of our own making. There are a few obvious almost too obvious villains in “Michael Clayton ” notably the chief counsel for an agrichemical  giant Karen Crowder played with twitches and rolls of gut fat by a mesmerizing Tilda Swinton. A Lady Macbeth in pumps and discreet pearls Karen has pledged her troth to her corporate masters instead of a murderous husband. She’s a cliché — brittle sexless friendless cheerless and all the rest — but what makes her work is her unnerving banality visible in the blank canvas of a face that looks untouched by gentleness or empathy. This is a pitiful creature as unloved by her writer-director creator as by the genius actress who plays her." ” written and directed by Tony Gilroy that conscience seems to have gone M.I.A. lost amid the dirty wheeling and dealing of a powerful New York law firm. Michael (Mr. Clooney) is the firm’s designated fixer though he likes to call himself its janitor. He works in that rarefied gray zone where the barely legal meets the almost criminal and takes lunch at the private club. Michael isn’t a member of that club; he just mops up its mess soothes its Botoxed brow and slips a fat envelope of thank you to inconvenient witnesses. There’s a dirty kind of glamour to this world with its rich trappings and its Ivy League smilers with their gutting knives. Its ugliness seduces as much as it repels and entertains." as well as the film’s moody thoughtfulness the Lumet touches and the agreeable presence of Sydney Pollack in a small role overtly invokes 1970s American cinema. But Mr. Lumet and Mr. Pollack didn’t give Hollywood its social conscience which comes and goes and depends on the audience to sustain it. In some ways Michael is  a grimmer compromised version of Erin Brockovich the freewheeling legal clerk in the short skirts who leads the charge against social injustice in Mr. Soderbergh’s populist 2000 drama. (Michael has to be dragged.) The main difference is that the earlier film’s optimism feels like a faded signal from a faraway land." mood and outraged worldview “Michael Clayton” is a film that speaks to the way we live now. Or at least the way certain masters of the universe do as they prowl the jungle in their sleek rides armed with killer instincts and the will to power. It’s a story about ethics and their absence a slow-to-boil requiem for American decency in which George Clooney the ultimate in luxury brands and playboy of the Western world raises the sword in the name of truth and justice and good. Well someone’s got to do it." some violence." Mr. Clooney has served as a guide into a different country one in which the media fail capitalism kills and heroes stumble. His glamour and easy manner make these excursions feel less a matter of duty than of necessity; they provide the pleasure that softens the pain. He does some strong work here especially when he’s nursing his character’s misery or gently squaring off against the young actor (Austin Williams) who plays his son. But he’s almost always good and he’s a big enough star now that each new role feels as if he’s playing a version of himself. That’s O.K. We need George Clooney just as we needed Warren Beatty — seducer of heavy hearts and troubled minds the beautiful bearer of our very bad tidings." but Michael serves it. His law firm is helping the agrichemical company settle a multibillion-dollar suit. It seems the company with the smoothly reassuring television commercials (cue the green fields and smiling children) doesn’t bring good things to life but death by the hundreds. While working to settle the case Michael’s friend Arthur (Tom Wilkinson) the firm’s star litigator has an epic meltdown. There’s blood on Arthur’s manicured hands though not only his as Michael discovers through a series of fairly predictable twists and turns. Mr. Gilroy hasn’t reinvented the legal thriller here but I doubt that was his intention; at its best and most ambitious the film plays less like a variation on a Hollywood standard than a reappraisal." Tom Wilkinson (Arthur Edens) Tilda Swinton (Karen Crowder) Sydney Pollack (Marty Bach) and Austin Williams (Henry Clayton)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05seek.html
” David L. Cunningham’s stilted fantasy about a pubescent lad charged with defeating evil and earning millions of dollars for an American movie studio. Let’s all try to recall where we’ve heard that before." everything changes for Will Stanton (Alexander Ludwig) an American living in Britain with his extremely large family. (Naturally Will is the seventh son of a seventh son so the old-woman-who-lived-in-a-shoe vibe is essential if distracting.) When darkening skies and a masked horseman (Christopher Eccleston) get between Will and his  crush (Amelia Warner) he is dismayed to learn that he is really a warrior who must find six signs and release the Light. From where is anybody’s guess." Ian McShane (Merriman Lyon) Frances Conroy (Miss Greythorne) Christopher Eccleston (the Rider) Gregory Smith (Max) Amelia Warner (Maggie Barnes) James Cosmo (Dawson) and Jim Piddock (Old George)." “The Seeker” feels passé and lacks a charismatic lead. Too bad Daniel Radcliffe is an only child." based on the “Dark Is Rising” book series by Susan Cooper; director of photography Joel Ransom; edited by Geoffrey Rowland and Eric A. Sears; music by Christophe Beck; production designer David Lee; produced by Marc Platt; released by 20th Century Fox and Walden Media. Running time: 98 minutes." writhing pythons and lots and lots of floodwater." Will braves a Viking war and 1 000 slithering snakes. Yet despite the creepiness of a scene featuring a pair of morphing mall security guards John Hodge’s screenplay is frequently dreary and overly literal. Will’s Googling of “the light and the dark” is only the most risible example." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05pain.html
who spends a bit of time worrying about his own motives and expressing ambivalence about his film. Mr. Kimmelman tells him “Your documentary on some level is going to be a lie ” meaning that it will be a necessarily partial and constructed representation of the truth." sometimes unsettling family drama. At the center is not really Marla who has a sweet smile and a shy delicate demeanor but rather her parents. Throughout the film Laura voices her apprehensions about subjecting Marla to so much public attention at so young an age. When asked if she’s having fun riding in limousines or appearing on talk shows Laura tends to say no and a quiet tension between her and her husband is evident in many scenes. Mark is more enthusiastic about Marla’s fame so much so that his promotion of her career like Mr. Brunelli’s begins to seem opportunistic even exploitative." but rather the vital byproducts of play part of the cognitive and sensory awakening that is the grand universal vocation of childhood. The urge to commodify and display them is primarily an adult expression of appreciation and nostalgia. We love our children and we long for the children we used to be. These feelings are for the most part perfectly benign. “My Kid Could Paint That ” a new documentary directed by Amir Bar-Lev is troubling because it explores a case in which the grown-up fascination with a child’s art appears to have spun out of control." who was born in 2000 and who found herself a few years ago at the center of a minor media frenzy. As far as anyone can tell it all started innocently enough. Marla’s father Mark a factory manager in Binghamton N.Y. was also an amateur painter who set his daughter up with brushes and canvases while she was still in diapers. On a whim Mark and his wife Laura a dental assistant exhibited some of Marla’s paintings in a friend’s coffee shop where patrons expressed interest in buying them. A show at a Binghamton gallery owned by Anthony Brunelli followed and a column in the local newspaper begat an article in this one. Soon Marla and her family were being interviewed on national television and her paintings were fetching five-figure prices." stuck to the refrigerator with magnets or rolled up in a box somewhere in the basement. The value of these artifacts is personal and sentimental but they can also have an aesthetic power that goes beyond parental pride. The untaught sense of color and composition that children seem naturally to possess sometimes yields extraordinary results and the combination of instinct and accident that governs their creative activity can  produce astonishing works of art." and also chronicles the backlash that followed when a “60 Minutes” report suggested that her father may have been helping her paint or even presenting his work as hers. As “My Kid Could Paint That” unfolds its emphasis shifts. A story that had seemed to raise philosophical questions about the nature of art after modernism — some of them posed by Michael Kimmelman chief art critic for The New York Times — evolves into a queasy study of the culture of celebrity." trying to ride the beast of media celebrity without getting eaten by it. Elizabeth Cohen the journalist at The Binghamton Press & Sun-Bulletin who wrote the first article about Marla serves as the film’s resident media critic and also as its (guilty) conscience worrying about the corrupting distorting effects of Marla’s success. There is something frightening about the breathless overwrought excitement that greeted the first news of the child’s  paintings and also about the ugly rage that followed the “60 Minutes” report. Ms. Cohen sensibly asks whether it might have been better for everyone if the Olmsteads had been left alone." Matt Boyd Nelson Hume and Bill Turnley; edited by John Walter and Michael Levine; music by Rondo Brothers; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 83 minutes." I think a deeper dishonesty in “My Kid Could Paint That ” a bad faith that lies precisely in Mr. Bar-Lev’s studied displays of doubt and unease. Acknowledging that he as much as anyone else is guilty of exploiting Marla is an exemplary postmodern move but it hardly lets him off the hook. He has made an excellent documentary but it would have been better if he had not made it at all." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05nigh.html
sometimes not. In “The Good Night ” written and directed by Jake Paltrow the Moore surrogate Gary Sheller (Martin Freeman) is a single guy in his mid-30s whose relationship with Dora (the director’s sister Gwyneth Paltrow) his nagging live-in girlfriend of seven years has turned to ashes. Gary is not the kind of buffoonish drunk that Moore excelled at playing but he has the same collapsed self-image as a dilapidated specimen of manhood genuflecting before perfectly shaped goddesses." Giles Nuttgens; edited by Rick Lawley; music by Alec Puro; production designer Eve Stewart; produced by Donna Gigliotti and Bill Johnson; released by Yari Film Group. Running time: 93 minutes." an eccentric motormouth nut case who spouts torrents of wacky dream theory in his “lucid dreaming” therapy group. Mr. DeVito’s Mel  is in a word unbearable." who died five years ago. You know the subgenre: a bumbling tippling fantasist becomes besotted with a dream girl and forsakes reason to wallow in his fantasy. In this variation the farce has been tamped down to whimsy." “The Good Night” gives him an obnoxious sidekick in his producer best friend and former band mate Paul (Simon Pegg) a slick self-infatuated misogynist who patronizes lap-dance clubs and mistreats his girlfriend Terry (Amber Sealey). Compared with this rat Gary is an angelic sad sack for whom you almost begin to feel sorry." Gary is also a British musician. Although Gary has a rock ’n’ roll background he composes for television commercials and lives in New York City. When his serious artistic side is finally heard late in the movie the original piano piece he plays is the kind of characterless schlock that movies often try to pass off as modern classical music." sullen partner whose whining voice you dread hearing first thing in the morning. Nevertheless each night before turning off the lights these miserable people exchange tired dutiful “Love you” ’s." he meets this creature whose real name is Melody. A chain-smoking tequila-swilling hedonist who is all hard edges Melody immediately sizes up Gary as a jealous crazy loser on their abortive date and wisely beats a retreat. Ms. Cruz as ever loses much mystique the moment she speaks English." ” when it was sweet and innocent. Each time it is recycled it gets more sour and joyless." but hardly any laughter. The object of Gary’s affection is a beautiful woman (Penélope Cruz) who communicates with him telepathically in his dreams. When he first glimpses this phantom lover who calls herself Anna she is a shining figure in white strolling on a deserted beach. Their eyes meet and their instant rapport is so complete that her amorous thoughts register as subtitled words. Anna becomes such a powerful fantasy that Gary would rather sleep than continue living his ordinary domestic life with Dora who works in an art gallery." Gwyneth Paltrow (Dora) Penélope Cruz (Anna/Melody) Simon Pegg (Paul) Danny DeVito (Mel) Michael Gambon (Alan Weigert) Amber Sealey (Terry) Keith Allen (Norman) and Finty Williams (Studio Assistant)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05mons.html
much of it doesn’t register because the Imax format is distractingly spectacular. The movies are like classroom lectures during which the teacher hurls giant props at the students." “Sea Monsters: A Prehistoric Adventure ” they’re as spectacular as one could wish." long-nosed dolichorhynchops (a k a dollies) gliding through indigo water clogged with particulate matter; a 40-foot-long tylosaurus clamping its jaws around prey bursting through the surface and soaring into the air like an immense razor-toothed dolphin. Step right up." T. C. Christensen; edited by Jonathan Shaw; music by Richard Evans David Rhodes and Peter Gabriel; produced by Lisa Truitt and Jini Dürr; released by National Geographic Giant Screen Distribution. Running time: 40 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05hear.html
childish fascination with bodily ickiness when crossed with the iffy sexual politics of the original yields a comic vision remarkable for its hysterical misogyny. It is not just that their hero a San Francisco sporting-goods salesman named Eddie Cantrow has some issues with women. These — narcissism fear of commitment a sentimental longing for the greener grass on the other side of the fence — are pretty standard among romantic-comedy bachelors. The problem is that unlike Ms. May and Mr. Simon the Farrellys have no interest in examining Eddie’s psychology or his soul." ” Elaine May’s 1972 adaptation of a short story by Bruce Jay Friedman (with a screenplay by Neil Simon) you’re missing a minor if somewhat dated classic a study in Jewish male sexual anxiety that fits comfortably (which is to say nervously and neurotically) alongside “Portnoy’s Complaint” and the early films of Woody Allen and Paul Mazursky." for all the humiliation she endures is a nimble and charming comic actress. Ms. Monaghan may be as well but she never gets the chance to show it because  her job is to incarnate an ideal of obliging loveliness that rules out having an actual personality. Wives have those which means they are  scary dumb sexual freaks like Lila — she doesn’t trim her pubic hair! she thinks “inhabitate” is a word! — or scary sexless control freaks like the one who henpecks Eddie’s best pal Mac." ” Peter and Bobby Farrelly’s new update of that earlier picture I’m jealous." Eddie pursues his flirtation with Miranda impeded less by his conscience than by logistical complications and the suspicions of her cousin Martin (Danny R. McBride who was also the best thing about “Hot Rod”). As matters come to a head Martin will shove a hot pepper up Eddie’s nose and later whack him with a baseball bat. Go Martin! Also Eddie will be stung by a jellyfish and urinated on though not by Martin who has too much dignity for that." and I’ve admired much of the Farrelly brothers’ earlier work. At their best — in “Shallow Hal” or “Kingpin ” say — they show a rare ability to mix the nasty and the nice to combine humor based in the grossness of the body and its functions with a sweet humanistic spirit." rather than on Eddie’s indecision is a sign of the film’s fundamental cowardice. Once Lila is badly sunburned and covered with scabs and blisters and once she has revealed herself to be stupid and dishonest — well no wonder Eddie falls for Miranda (Michelle Monaghan) who is vacationing in Cabo with some members of her extended family." whose caddishness is the movie’s authentic and unexamined subject deserves. And the audience deserves better than easy lazy jokes about Mexicans who — get this — speak English with funny accents play mariachi music and rip off tourists. One of them a fellow known as Uncle Tito (Carlos Mencia crawling up from the bottom of the Comedy Central barrel) has a habit of saying shocking things to Eddie waiting a beat and then exclaiming “I was only joking.” In its last desperate moments “The Heartbreak Kid” tries something similar but the punch line comes too late to rescue this lame long ugly joke of a movie." to whom this paragraph is addressed. Mr. Corddry you used to be one of the finest fake journalists of your generation and you’ve thrown that away to be Ben Stiller’s third-string sidekick. What as it were is up with that?" still single at 40 cutely meets Lila (Malin Akerman) a leggy blonde with a passing resemblance to Cameron Diaz Mr. Stiller’s co-star in the Farrellys’ “There’s Something About Mary.” Six weeks after meeting Eddie and Lila are married and on their way to a honeymoon in Mexico at which point Eddie starts to see aspects of his new wife’s personality that had escaped his notice before. She likes to sing along with the radio. She has a deviated septum. Worst of all she is uninhibited and adventurous in bed. (“What’s the missionary position?” she asks.) What a nightmare!" under the circumstances inexplicable — female sexual enthusiasm." Michelle Monaghan (Miranda) Malin Akerman (Lila) Jerry Stiller (Doc) Rob Corddry (Mac) Carlos Mencia (Uncle Tito) Scott Wilson (Boo) and Danny McBride (Martin)." Leslie Dixon Bobby Farrelly Peter Farrelly and Kevin Barnett based on the screenplay by Neil Simon and the short story “A Change of Plan” by Bruce Jay Friedman; director of photography Matthew F. Leonetti; edited by Alan Baumgarten and Sam Seig; music by Brendan Ryan and Bill Ryan; production designer Sidney Bartholomew; produced by Ted Field and Bradley Thomas; released by DreamWorks Pictures and Paramount Pictures. Running time: 115 minutes." back in 1972 when Eddie was named Lenny and played by Charles Grodin he actually had one. As impersonated by Ben Stiller Eddie has only a collection of familiar grating behaviors. Mr. Stiller possesses a gift for shifting quickly from discomfort to confrontation a gift he has been happy to squander as his paychecks have grown. His feints and flinches have lost their spontaneity and his aggression is without vitality." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05fini.html
“Finishing the Game” saves its sharpest barbs for a sequence featuring the excellent Dustin Nguyen as a television cop saddled with the catch phrase “I ain’t gonna do your laundry.” Sadly his efforts (and those of a good-natured James Franco as his bemused partner) fall far short of rescuing a movie that unlike its inspiration never gets off the ground." “Finishing the Game” is a terrific idea still waiting to be fashioned into a real movie." he had filmed only 12 minutes of his dream project “The Game of Death.” The studio’s decision to complete the film using a replacement actor outraged fans and provides the impetus for “Finishing the Game ” an extended audition sequence for the new Bruce Lee." Sung Kang (Cole Kim) Meredith Scott Lynn (Eloise Gazdag) Monique Gabriela Curnen (Saraghina Rivas) Mousa Kraish (Raja) McCaleb Burnett (Tarrick Tyler) Dustin Nguyen (Troy Poon) James Franco (Dean Silo) and Ron Jeremy (Peter Dowd)." the movie stabs ineffectually at Asian stereotypes and the ghettoization of Chinese-American actors. But the director Justin Lin (who wrote the screenplay with Josh Diamond) lacks comic timing and the ability to hear jokes thud to the floor: a pornography setup with an irascible Ron Jeremy  feels even more tired than his trademark mustache." Tom Clancey;  edited by Greg Louie; music by Brian Tyler; production designer Candi Guterres; produced by Julie Asato Salvador Gatdula and Mr. Lin; released by IFC First Take. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 84 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05brok.html
Jeremy Sisto (Will) Tess Harper (Clare) Linda Hamilton (Karen) Michael Goorjian (Thomas) and Jake Busey (Vince)." profanity and sexual situations." the story of Hope (Heather Graham) an aspiring singer-songwriter from Cleveland whose life comes apart while under the sway of her heroin-addicted boyfriend Will (Jeremy Sisto) becomes an allegory in which according to the movie’s production notes she “is navigating through her own version of the seven deadly sins.”" ” directed by Alan White defies basic credibility it is at least well acted. Mr. Sisto in particular gets inside the skin of his miserable character and the final scene in which he goes ballistic in the diner is a tour de force of nastiness and snarling self-pity. If you recall Billy Chenowith Mr. Sisto’s mentally unstable character in “Six Feet Under ” imagine a much less intelligent version of the same guy in the throes of his worst psychotic episode." it muddies and complicates the tale of a beautiful doe-eyed musician of dubious talent praised by everyone who unaccountably hooks up with Mr. Wrong. Why a young woman with any sense would fall in love with Will an obvious nut case who picks her up on a beach is a mystery only the movie’s screenwriter Drew Pillsbury can answer. From the moment Will appears with his paranoid eyes sick smile and hostile manner he  is clearly the kind of loser from whom only another crazy person would not instantly recoil. And until he turns Hope into a heroin-crazed zombie there are no signs that she is crazy; a little naïve perhaps but not a fool." Neil Shapiro; edited by Jay Nelson; music by Jeehun Hwang; production designer Charisse Cardenas; produced by Jerry Wayne and Brian R. Etting; released by Truly Indie. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 97 minutes." ruined facsimile of what she might become." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05bibl.html
a  daughter of the former House minority leader Richard A. Gephardt and his wife Jane talks about enduring a sexless marriage to a man before falling in love with a lesbian friend admitting the truth about herself coming out and eventually joining her father on the campaign trail with his support and encouragement. Another profile subject is Bishop V. Gene Robinson of New Hampshire the first openly gay bishop of the Episcopal Church who also survived a disastrous marriage before coming out." a word embodied by this movie’s most unfortunate sequence a smart-alecky animated short in which a gay man a lesbian and a booming Voice of God (Don LaFontaine) disabuse a homophobe of his ignorance. The dummy’s name? Christian." the movie is unremarkable with one conspicuous and unfortunate exception: when Mr. Karslake apes the supercharged empathy of an episode of “Dateline” on NBC right down to the verging-on-schmaltzy music. Otherwise the interviews with scholars parsing the Old and New Testaments are paired with the expected archival photographs and illustrations of biblical scenes. “For the Bible Tells Me So” is strictly speaking an educational film with the artlessness that that phrase implies." detailing how individuals adjusted (or failed to adjust) to their new reality and how parents reacted (usually poorly)." however inelegant fills a need. The inevitable DVD should be packaged in a plain cardboard sleeve so that viewers can carry it in their pockets and if confronted by a homophobe hand it over and say “Watch this then get back to me.”" one of the staunchest advocates of gay rights in the movie became a political activist after her daughter Anna committed suicide — the result Ms. Wallner believes of the letter she wrote to Anna rejecting her after she came out. Brenda and David Poteat married ministers struggle to accept their daughter Tonia’s lesbian identity and judging from Mr. Poteat’s statements he’s not there yet." but innovation  surely ranks very low on this filmmaker’s to-do list. Mr. Karslake has said that the movie is mainly intended as a feature-length primer that can be deployed in arguments with homophobes." not a lifestyle choice and that those who quote Leviticus to justify their animosity are guilty not just of intolerance but also of selective piety an inability to understand historical context and poor reading comprehension. (Abomination for example does not mean against God but against a civilization’s cultural norms.)" 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 97 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/05/movies/05bayo.html
Alex LeMay genuflects toward context acknowledging for instance that some of the New Orleans people had criminal records or drug problems then pointing out that they came from neighborhoods where drugs and violence were commonplace. But the movie doesn’t shape its data into a coherent narrative." housed at a National Guard base and then relocated to temporary homes." subjected to background checks confined to the base under curfew and treated with suspicion by locals who seized on stories that the evacuees were thugs with murder and rape records and drug problems." like the one in which one man Ralph Parker explains why he decided to stay in Utah: “I’ve weathered enough storms.”" then throws in a long account of an outreach effort by Shmuely Boteach the rabbi and television and radio host who flew to Utah and urged residents to embrace the evacuees. The result feels less like a revelatory feature film than several shorts strung together." based on a story by Michael Reynolds; narrated by Art Hoyle; directors of photography Andrew Dryer and Peter Biagi; edited by Martin Nelson and Mike Russell; music by Geno Lenardo; produced by Mr. LeMay Jimmy Finkl Mr. Russell and Marybeth Mazzone; released by Cinema Libre Studio. In Manhattan at the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/03/movies/03girl.html
Blythe Auffarth (Megan Loughlin) Madeline Taylor (Susan Loughlin) Blanche Baker  (Ruth Chandler) William Atherton (David Moran as an adult) Austin Williams (Woofer) Benjamin Ross Kaplan (Donny) and Graham Patrick Martin (Willie Jr.)" ” you had better make sure that your redeeming reasons for doing so are crystal clear. Gregory M. Wilson the film’s director either doesn’t have any such reasons or doesn’t know how to convey them which means that he has made the kind of movie that makes you wish you could rinse your brain in bleach to wash all traces of it from your memory." rape torture and strong language." who is in her 20s doesn’t look particularly convincing as the 14-year-old Megan but it’s just as well that a child actor wasn’t used given what is done to her." and Mr. Wilson at first goes for the bittersweet tone of “Stand by Me ” but he doesn’t find it largely because his young actors don’t have the skills of River Phoenix and friends. Because they never convince us of their all-for-one camaraderie it’s never clear why David the world’s least heroic adolescent doesn’t do the obviously right thing." based on the novel by Jack Ketchum; director of photography William M. Miller; edited by M. J. Fiore; music by Ryan Shore; production designers Krista Gall and Jeff Subik; produced by Mr. Miller and Andrew van den Houten; released by ModernCiné. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 91 minutes." ” which opens today at Two Boots Pioneer Theater is based on the Ketchum novel of the same title which in turn was based on the notorious real murder of a teenage girl named Sylvia Likens  in Indiana in 1965. The story is altered somewhat and moved to New Jersey in the 1950s but the gist of it is the same: the girl (named Megan in the film) and her sister are left in the custody of sadistic Aunt Ruth who encourages her three sons and other children to join her in abusing the girls in the sickest of ways. Ultimately they collectively abuse Megan to death." ” seen this year at the Sundance Film Festival) perhaps no child spoke out because of the coercive psychological power an adult authority figure can wield. But Mr. Wilson never shows us this power or explores it; all that Ruth (Blanche Baker) does is smoke cigarettes offer the boys beers and say vulgar things." in a narrative device that has become a cliché is told through the grown-up eyes of Ruth’s 12-year-old neighbor David (Daniel Manche as a child; William Atherton as an adult) who observes more than participates in the abuse." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/03/movies/03fire.html
as with “Schindler’s List ” too much red might well have sent audiences fleeing from theaters. The absence of color blunts the force of the images (the sounds of the machinery  are still unsettling) which allows you to watch the movie rather than avert your gaze and your rattled mind.  Mr. Kaye has an irritating sometimes self-undermining weakness for shocking visuals (and edits) but it’s clear from all the time he spent on this project and from the different voices he’s gathered that he was genuinely interested in making a serious work one that explores its subject with far more depth and breadth than the usual run-and-gun documentaries." candles shaped like praying hands) could be straight out of a cheap horror flick though the later presence of heavyweights like Noam Chomsky points to more sober ambitions." including perhaps those who worry that such explicit imagery can speak louder than any pro-abortion-rights  argument. It’s an understandable concern. Because they are filmed (the dead woman is immortalized in a still photograph) the abortions are unnerving which is why I suggest that the faint of heart skip the rest of this paragraph. After the first operation a second-trimester abortion the doctor sorts through a tray of fetal parts including a perfect-looking tiny hand and a foot to make sure that nothing has been left inside the patient which might lead to poisoning or even death. The doctor then holds up the severed fetal head. One eerily bulging eye looks as if it’s staring into the camera and somehow at us." a form that relies on bold visuals and simple messages. He went on to direct the flashy “American History X” (1998) about a charismatic neo-Nazi though he lost control of the project to its star Edward Norton. Mr. Kaye began shooting material for “Lake of Fire” (the title refers to hell) in the early 1990s a process that consumed an uncommonly long 16  years. He has stated that he was interested in making a “socially conscious” dramatic film but decided to make a documentary that would represent the issue in its complexity despite knowing nothing about the form. His ignorance has its dividends. Shot primarily in sumptuous often disquietingly beautiful 35-millimeter film “Lake of Fire” doesn’t look anything like most American documentaries." particularly those sympathetic to a woman’s right to abortion to understand what stirs some people not just to action but also to kill doctors. If nothing else the first abortion in the film (of a 20-week-old fetus though that information is not in the film) reinforces what an abstraction the term pro-choice really is. Abortion does end the life of something. The fight of course is over what that something is — an embryo a baby God’s creation a blob of cells — and who has dominion over it and the fully formed human being carrying that something inside her body." ” which has an awful lot of men talking about what women should and should not do with their bodies. There are women here to be sure though it may be instructive that one of the most memorable female voices belongs to an unreliable witness who talks about seeing “babies” stacked in an abortion-clinic freezer. Mr. Kaye follows this startling testimonial with otherworldly and unidentified images of intact late-term fetuses or babies or maybe even dolls. Because I couldn’t tell what I was looking at I asked the film’s distributor. According to the company these images had been given to Mr. Kaye by members of the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue." including  those homegrown religious fundamentalists who kill in the name of God — is that it was made in black and white. This is critical. Because the other thing you should know about this fascinating discomfiting at times unpleasant confused and confusing film is that it sets off extremely graphic images of actual abortions against a notorious photograph of a woman who died after an illegal motel room abortion visuals that are inflammatory if for the most part also germane." and sometimes pictures are not enough. Although the film doesn’t identify her the dead woman in the photograph that Mr. Kaye shows us late in the film is Gerri Santoro. In 1964 when abortion was not yet a constitutional right she and a male lover checked into a Connecticut motel room where he tried to perform an abortion. She had become pregnant and feared that her estranged husband who beat her and their children would find out. Something went wrong and the lover fled. Ms. Santoro died smeared in blood defeated naked and alone. Before she was a symbol she was a person." Noam Chomsky Nat Hentoff Dallas A. Blanchard Norma McCorvey Peter Singer Randall Terry Frederick Clarkson Bill Baird Frances Kissling Michael Griffin and Paul Jennings Hill." he has succeeded notably through an array of mostly male journalists activists ministers lawyers and academics including the philosopher Peter Singer and the writer  Nat Hentoff who lay out the arguments  and scan the terrain. Some sound rational coolly dispassionate; others smile and spew. A few of the more vivid characters specifically religious extremists who believe that America should be a Christian nation and that abortion providers should be executed alongside homosexuals adulterers and blasphemers are well something else. Intentionally or not Mr. Kaye has made a documentary that vividly delineates how religious-fundamentalist terrorists take root  in a country slide around the law and gain legitimacy (martyrdom) and how those who profess to love God can justify murder." Tony Kaye was just resorting to shock tactics. The film doesn’t employ narration or on-screen texts that reveal his views on abortion; instead there are 152 minutes of talking-head testimonials on-the-street interviews and  archival and new visuals. This means that you have to pay extra-special attention to his filmmaking choices to the way he juxtaposes sights and sounds and who gets to speak and when." Mr. Kaye; edited by Peter Goddard; music by Anne Dudley; released by ThinkFilm. At  Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 152 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/03/movies/03coba.html
you will recognize most of the details: the caring aunt the nice teacher the gay friend the distant father the stupid people the cool artists and one wild chick. Mr. Cobain sounding alternately friendly guarded bored tired and at times slurred was at this stage in his life well practiced in the art of self-creation. He was weary with fame by the time of the interviews; many were recorded at night at one of his homes and were conducted from December 1992  through late March 1993 about a year before he died. Mr. Azerrad amassed more than 25 hours of interviews eventually using them for his 1993  book “Come as You Are: The Story of Nirvana.”" ” but I bet its subject the guy who’s still being called on to entertain us even after his death would have hated it." ” by Mr. Azerrad; director of photography Wyatt Troll; music by Steve Fisk and Benjamin Gibbard; produced by Shirley Moyers Noah Khoshbin and Chris Green; released by Balcony Releasing and Sidetrack Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 97 minutes. This film is not rated." and it certainly can’t begin to explain why this wondrously talented delicate creature decided to shoot himself in the head with a shotgun in early April 1994. Hearing Mr. Cobain talk about shooting himself with a shotgun as he does several times in the film doesn’t add a thing to our knowledge; it’s painful to hear even now. Mostly it feels intrusive and disrespectful. Nobody forced Mr. Cobain to talk about himself of course; at the time of the interviews he was trying to clean up his and his wife’s image. (You hear Courtney Love briefly at one point.) It didn’t work. And then he died." if that’s the right word by A J Schnack the film weds about an hour and a half of  audio interviews by the journalist Michael Azerrad  with a stream of pretty visual images of places and unidentified people shot in and around where for much of his too-short 27-year life Mr. Cobain lived loved (if never enough it seems) labored played guitar shot heroin and created beautiful angry popular music with the other members of Nirvana. In standard narrative fashion these words and pictures have been shaped into three vague acts named after the Washington cities —  Aberdeen Olympia and Seattle — most associated with Mr. Cobain or at least most familiar to those who live outside the state." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/movies/28outs.html
he meets a fellow American (Larry Pine in a brilliant cameo) who advises him:  “I was resisting India. Once I gave in I did much better.”" “Outsourced” may be unique: a charming culture-clash romance that could be taught in business schools." John Jeffcoat and his co-writer George Wing hit  expected marks from the moment when a street urchin swipes the hero’s cellphone to the bit where Todd learns why Indians don’t eat with their left hand to the scene where Todd realizes that his sharpest employee an outspoken young woman named Asha (Ayesha Dharker) is gorgeous and has a crush on him." with cross- cultural wit to suggest a baptism). He also comes to understand Indians’ comfort with images of Kali the Hindu goddess of creation preservation and destruction. Todd learns that change can be negative positive or simply neutral and what matters is how one reacts to it." Teodoro Maniaci; edited by Brian Berdan; music by B C Smith; produced by Tom Gorai; released by Truly Indie. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 103 minutes." ” in which a Seattle call center manager named Todd (Josh Hamilton)  is fired and then dispatched to India as a consultant to train his own replacement is a wonderful surprise." though the filmmakers treat Todd’s story as a springboard for a smart look at the effect of cultural difference on work friendship and love and the global economy’s impact on national and personal identity." the polite 40-ish Puro (Asif Basra) lives with his parents and is surprised that Todd lives alone and rarely visits his own mother. He insists that Todd forgo his prearranged hotel room and stay at his home where his mom cooks up a storm and grills Todd on why he isn’t married yet." a quality demonstrated by every major character in “Outsourced” — particularly Todd who adapts to his hosts’ culture and language and makes them more invested in their jobs by rewarding efficiency gains with products from the company’s catalog." being American has no sense of himself as an American. He has an allergic reaction to Indian culture (embodied by the intestinal distress he suffers after eating local food). He is also taken aback by Indians’ emphasis on family ties and social obligations and they in turn are politely aghast at Todd’s disconnection from his own relatives." a force that shatters tradition and compels people to think of themselves as self-interested free agents. This pragmatic point of view is articulated by Asha who rhetorically asks Todd why it’s necessary for Indian call-center workers to pose as Americans while selling cheap junk made in China." Ayesha Dharker (Asha) Larry Pine (Bob) Asif Basra (Purohit N. Virajnarianan) and Matt Smith (Dave)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/movies/28trad.html
“Trade” is essentially an odd-couple road movie in which the extras are perverts and the victim is virginity. When 13-year-old Adriana (Paulina Gaitan) is kidnapped in Mexico City her older brother Jorge (a ferocious Cesar Ramos) assisted by an uptight Texas cop (Kevin Kline) tracks her abductors to New Jersey and an Internet sex auction." based on the New York Times Magazine article “The Girls Next Door” by Peter Landesman; director of photography Daniel Gottschalk; edited by Hansjorg Weissbrich; music by Jacobo Lieberman and Leonardo Heiblum; production designer Bernt Capra; produced by Roland Emmerich and Rosilyn Heller; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 119 minutes." “Trade” teeters between earnest exposé and salacious melodrama. Minus the film’s near-visible weight of conscience success in the second category would have been virtually guaranteed." beaten drugged and driven to suicide." Cesar Ramos (Jorge) Alicja Bachleda (Veronica) Paulina Gaitan (Adriana) Marco Perez (Manuelo) Linda Emond (Patty Sheridan) Zack Ward (Alex Green) Kate Del Castillo (Laura) Tim Reid (Hank Jefferson) and Pasha D. Lynchnikoff (Vadim Youchenko)." Jose Rivera’s highly improbable and sensationalized screenplay leaves its actors no room for authenticity. Marco Kreuzpaintner directs with commendable energy but squanders Daniel Gottschalk’s gold-dust-strewn images on hyperventilating voyeurism and an ending that sticks to your shoes if not your heart. His intentions may be laudable but his goals are conflicted: in seeking to educate as well as tease he ends up doing neither." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/movies/28suga.html
charismatic organizer Father Hartley is a disciple of Mother Teresa. Born in 1959 to an aristrocratic Spanish-British family he dropped out of an elite private school at 15 joined a seminary and for much of 20 years beginning in 1977 worked with her in poor communities around the world. His sojourn in the Dominican Republic began in 1997 when he volunteered as a missionary in the diocese of San Pedro de Macoris a 600-square-mile parish based in the town of San José de los Llanos. The conditions he found on the plantations he says were tantamount to slavery." gravelly tones by Paul Newman. Like most documentary polemics it simplifies the issues it confronts and selects facts that bolster its black-and-white heroes-and-villains view of raw economic power." unforeseen ways. Once the immigrant laborers were permitted to travel outside the bateyes they flooded the town of San José de los Llanos and simmering ethnic hatred of Haitians among Dominicans came to a boil fanned by bribery and propaganda from the sugar barons." the film explains they work 14 hours a day seven days a week earning less than $1 a day with minimal-to-nonexistent health care. Instead of cash they are paid in vouchers that can be redeemed for overpriced food at company-owned stores. Since they can afford only one meal a day most of the calories they consume come from chewing sugar cane. Since children born in the bateyee are not recognized as Dominican citizens they grow up stateless." a dynasty of sugar barons who refused to be interviewed for the film and sent the filmmakers a cease-and-desist letter in an attempt to block its release. The United States which imports much of the Dominican sugar is partly culpable the movie says because of political contributions from the barons that have helped maintain the price of imported Dominican sugar at close to double the world price." as the sugar harvest  approaches as many as 20 000 Haitian workers are recruited with the promise of steady work at higher pay than they can earn in Haiti the poorer of the two countries. With the complicity of military and immigration authorities the movie says these destitute immigrants are loaded onto trucks stripped of their identification papers and transported in the middle of the night to the bateyes where many are housed in concentration-camp-like barracks. Estimates of the population of undocumented Haitians living in the camps range from 650 000 to one million." ” Bill Haney’s muckraking documentary about Haitians lured into a form of indentured servitude on sugar plantations across the border in the Dominican Republic focuses on the Rev.  Christopher Hartley a courageous and stubborn Spanish priest who devoted 10 years to bettering their desperate plight." with English subtitles) by Mr. Haney and Peter Rhodes; narrated by Paul Newman; directors of photography Eric Cochran and Jerry Risius; edited by Mr. Rhodes; music by Claudio Ragazzi; produced by Eric Grunebaum and Mr. Haney; released by Mitropoulos Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." known as bateyes which according to the film resembled forced labor camps patrolled by armed guards before Father Hartley’s reform movement. Through his organizing and relentless pressuring of the plantation owners in the face of death threats some bateyes in his parish now have improved living and working conditions and have been visited by American doctors." his reforms will be rescinded and the previous labor conditions will resume." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/movies/28lust.html
Caution” — a truer title would be “Caution: Lust” — is a sleepy musty period drama about wartime maneuvers and bedroom calisthenics and the misguided use of a solid director. Based on a short story about Japanese-occupied Shanghai and Hong Kong it was directed by Ang Lee the Taiwanese-born Hollywood-cultivated filmmaker who brought “Brokeback Mountain” to the screen. In that earlier romance the love between two male sheepherders can scarcely speak its name much less easily drop its jeans; by contrast there’s little left to the imagination in “Lust Caution ” other than the inspiration for Mr. Lee’s newfound flirtation with kink." even if he’s playing more of a conceit than a character. A poet of hurt Mr. Leung suggests worlds of pain with his melancholic eyes — few actors convey desire as beautifully or with such reserve. (Unlike Jake Gyllenhaal another performer whose dreamy gaze pulls you in as if into deep waters you never catch Mr. Leung working his eyes widening them for easy emotional effect.) In his best films including “In the Mood for Love ” Mr. Leung doesn’t do much talking: he looks he conquers. This makes him seem like a perfect match for Mr. Lee who has a way of giving lyrical expression to mute desire. He can turn a sigh into a declaration of love but he can’t turn minor soft-core shocks into poetry." Caution” has been rated NC-17 (No one 17 and under admitted). Think pay-cable soft-core pornography not the video-store back room." despite the shoving and hitting a few harsh lashes and geometric configurations  that put me in mind of high school geometry more than it did the Kama Sutra. The Motion Picture Association of America that tireless cheerless band of Comstocks who regulate all things sexual and few things violent on behalf of the major studios has saddled the film with an NC-17 rating — no one 17 and under admitted even with an adult — because of “some explicit sexuality.” The horrors of female nudity (unshaven armpits!) and the vigorous pantomime of coitus apparently offended the sensibilities of the M.P.A.A. which routinely bestows R ratings to movies in which characters are tortured to death for kicks." Tang Wei (Wong Chia Chi/Mak Tai Tai) Joan Chen (Yee Tai Tai) Wang Leehom (Kuang Yu Min) and Anupam Kher (Jewelry Shop Manager)." “Lust Caution” feels at once overpadded and underdeveloped: it’s all production design and not enough content. The screenwriters James Schamus and Wang Hui Ling who last collaborated on Mr. Lee’s lavish martial arts entertainment “Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon ” have puffed up and sexed up Eileen Chang’s original story without adding any psychological depth or sociopolitical heft. (Oddly the story line echoes Paul Verhoeven’s equally absurd if livelier and more lurid World War II-era romp “Black Book.”) That’s particularly hard on Tang Wei whose pretty bow mouth and gentle hothouse manner feel terribly ill suited to a role that calls for cunning for the emotional violence of sacrifice betrayal fanaticism lust." CAUTION" named Wong swept up in a preposterous conspiracy against Yee. See she’s playing a role. But her imitation of life has its limits perhaps because the filmmakers have tried to squeeze an epic out of an exceedingly slender short story. However evocative the transformation of this virginal creature — who looks most plausible (and all of 15) in long braids and no visible makeup — into a lethally minded femme fatale a Mata Hari in a cheongsam fails to convince. And it fails to convince at a ludicrous 158 minutes. (Mr. Lee’s adaptation of the Jane Austen novel “Sense and Sensibility” clocks in at a smooth 135.)" I blushed at the grimly determined image of the Hong Kong actor Tony Leung Chiu-Wai the great grave soulful heart of Wong Kar-wai films like “In the Mood for Love” and “2046 ” bunching up the sheets as this new film’s resident villain and cad. As Mr. Yee a Chinese official getting his hands bloody working for the Japanese occupiers the actor slinks around the shadows like a specter of evil. (A fine Joan Chen flexes her red claws as his wife.) Yee is meant to be a bad bad man but mostly he comes across as a sad sad man with flexible limbs and a taste for rough. He knocks rather than sweeps women off their feet and his latest playmate Mrs. Mak (Tang Wei) likes it that way." with English subtitles) by Wang Hui Ling  and James Schamus based on the short story “Se Jei” by Eileen Chang; director of photography Rodrigo Prieto; edited by Tim Squyres; music by Alexandre Desplat; production designer Pan Lai; produced by Bill Kong Mr. Lee and Mr. Schamus; released by Focus Features. At the Lincoln Plaza Broadway at 62nd Street. Running time: 158 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/movies/28king.html
a Saudi colonel who helps the Americans both before and after the bullets and rocket-propelled grenades start flying. Once they do the good guys are in the familiar physically perilous but morally gratifying position of being outmanned and outgunned with the cavalry nowhere in sight." graphic violence." ” a whodunit/blow-’em-up directed by Peter Berg corrects this lapse by taking aim at the ethical nuances and ideological contradictions of the war on terror and blasting away." ” Fleury says a while before the climactic barrage “but we’re pretty good at this.” If by “this” he means making high-impact action movies it’s hard to argue. And “The Kingdom ” hair-raising as it is is also curiously soothing in its depiction of American competence and righteousness." which includes two recent Academy Award winners (Jamie Foxx and Chris Cooper) do not trouble themselves exploring the finer points of their craft but their unpretentious professionalism is nonetheless satisfying to watch. Mr. Foxx does most of his acting with the muscles in his jaw and his upper arm delivering terse dialogue in a silky whisper. Mr. Cooper punches the folksiness buttons as a forensics expert whose aw-shucks manner masks a steel-trap mind. Jason Bateman is the class clown and Jennifer Garner no slouch in the jaw-flexing department also exercises her tear ducts and her trigger finger." Chris Cooper (Grant Sykes) Jennifer Garner (Janet Mayes) Jason Bateman (Adam Leavitt) Jeremy Piven (Damon Schmidt) Danny Huston (Gideon Young) Richard Jenkins (James Grace) Ashraf Barhom (Faris Al Ghazi) and Omar Berdouni (Prince Ahmed Bin Khaled)." as some other more ostentatiously serious movies coming out shortly seem poised to do Mr. Berg and Matthew Michael Carnahan the screenwriter do what they can to relieve it with fireballs and frantic chases. The result is a slick brutishly effective genre movie: “Syriana” for dummies." since one of their colleagues was killed in the attacks. Their presence is barely tolerated by the Saudi authorities many of whom are either incompetent or in cahoots with the jihadis. Meanwhile Jeremy Piven shows up as an embassy flunky whose job is to prevent Special Agent Fleury (Mr. Foxx) and his colleagues from doing theirs." earnest puzzles have their place in the movie cosmos but so do lean linear stories with clearly defined villains and heroes and lots of explosions." an actor whose directing skills improve with each project (his last for the big screen was the underrated “Friday Night Lights”) shows himself adept at the rapid cutting and hectic camerawork that are fast becoming the lingua franca of action filmmaking." who don’t want to antagonize an important ally. Backed up by their no-nonsense boss (Richard Jenkins) the Forensic Four nonetheless head to Riyadh." “The Kingdom” can be seen as a wishful revisionist scenario for the American response to Islamic fundamentalist terrorism. In some ways it’s an anti-Iraq movie not because it expresses opposition to the war there but rather because it makes no mention of it. Instead the film spins a cathartic counternarrative. After a murderous terrorist attack a few of our best people — four rather than a few hundred thousand — go over to the country that spawned the terrorists kill the bad guys and come home. And they even leave the door open for a sequel." Mauro Fiore; edited by Kevin Stitt and Colby Parker Jr.; music by Danny Elfman; production designer Tom Duffield; produced by Michael Mann and Scott Stuber; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 111 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/movies/28game.html
”  in which a quarterback named Joe Kingman played by Dwayne (The Rock) Johnson learns to love the young daughter Peyton (Madison Pettis) he never knew he had. But the movie is so likable that it glides over its many plot holes (including the fishy explanation of why Joe never knew about Peyton and an 11th-hour revelation by the girl that’s even less persuasive). The film’s direction by  Andy Fickman is raucous but never crass and the affable Mr. Johnson is committed to every moment." tough teacher played by Roselyn Sanchez). And it lets Mr. Fickman stage some lively sequences including an endearing montage that cuts between ballet and football practice and a dance recital in which Joe who’s been pressed into service as a tree plays his role with such sincerity that he brings his burly teammates in the audience to tears." by Nichole Millard and Kathryn Price establishes Joe as a man-boy who talks about himself in the third person and has a separate room for his trophies. Peyton puts a tutu on his bulldog switches his television to a horse program during the final seconds of an N.B.A. game and insists on being enrolled in a ballet class." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/movies/28fres.html
Amelia Vincent; edited by David Codron; music by tomandandy; production designer Frank J. Zito III; produced by Dan Halsted Stavros Merjos and Adam Rosenfelt; released by Regent Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 91 minutes." the movie follows Clay (a likable Sam Huntington) a hormonal Midwestern freshman who feigns gayness to breach the defenses of a sorority doll named Amanda (Kaitlin Doubleday). But as Clay becomes increasingly immersed in his manufactured identity he begins to realize that charades may just be the most popular game on campus." Marla Sokoloff (Marjorie) Mike Erwin (Matt) Heather Matarazzo (Jessica) Kaitlin Doubleday (Amanda) Bryce Johnson (Tazwell) Jud Tylor (Serena) and Rachel Dratch (Very Drunk Chick)." an innocent heart and a surprisingly wise mind “Freshman Orientation” uses identity politics as a road to romance and emotional maturity. The naked breasts are a bonus." “Freshman Orientation” is on one level a stereotypical mash of Greek cruelty queer poetry slams and rabid activist rhetoric. But beneath the tired crudeness and college-romp clichés the movie is gently perceptive about the malleable nature of sexuality and the barriers we construct to hide our confusion. And while younger audiences may miss an oblique reference to the Friends of Dorothy everyone will recognize the film’s keenest observation: that college is for most people an all-too-brief deferment of a depressingly preordained life." gay stalkers and genital-fondling fraternity pledges." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/movies/28feas.html
sexual situations and some strong language." an ex-jock and recovering heroin addict in his late teens who works in Jitters and Chloe (Alexa Davalos) a new girl in town with whom he falls in love the moment she enters the shop. Oscar lives with his abusive father (Fred Ward) a mean knife-wielding drunk. To stay out of his reach the cash-starved lovers resort to making a pornographic video of which a tidbit is shown." based on the novel by Charles Baxter; director of photography Kramer Morgenthau; edited by Andrew Mondshein; production designer Missy Stewart; produced by Tom Rosenberg Gary Lucchesi and Richard S. Wright; released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer. Running time: 102 minutes." they sound portentous and condescending in the context of “Feast of Love ” a hollow  contrivance masquerading as a wise and witty contemporary gloss on “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” This is a movie in which the characters’ beliefs in haunted houses and fortunetelling are taken half-seriously. Mr. Benton now in the twilight of a distinguished career (“Kramer vs. Kramer ” “Places in the Heart”) should have known better." he goes on to repeat a variation of the same mistake. He meets and marries Diana (Radha Mitchell) a beautiful real estate agent who has been carrying on an affair with a married man (Billy Burke) that is too hot to give up. When these dogs in heat get riled up they slap each other in the face. Bradley would sooner die than slap anyone in the face." like Mr. Freeman is recycling a stereotype he has played before: a bland wagging puppy who is smugly clueless and (despite one sweaty lovemaking scene) sexless. Bradley’s tinny shtick becomes the movie’s theme: Is love just nature’s plot to give us lots of babies or is it the only thing that gives our crazy lives any meaning? It could be a Barry Manilow song." Mr. Benton a director who has always relished showing the female form turns the camera on his actresses’ gleaming torsos. These beautifully lighted soft-core teases lend an erotic frisson to a movie that in most other ways feels enervated." Greg Kinnear (Bradley) Radha Mitchell (Diana) Jane Alexander (Esther) Alexa Davalos (Chloe) Toby Hemingway (Oscar) Selma Blair (Kathryn) Stana Katic (Jenny) Billy Burke (David) and Fred Ward (Bat)." ” Morgan Freeman Hollywood’s sage for all seasons has a role he could act in his sleep. Early in this serious comedy directed by Robert Benton and adapted by Allison Burnett from Charles Baxter’s popular 2000 novel “The Feast of Love ” Mr. Freeman’s character Harry Stevenson observes that when the Greek gods were bored they invented humans. Still bored they invented love which wasn’t boring so they tried it too. Then they invented laughter so they could stand it." but Harry notices.  When Kathryn storms out of the house to live with Jenny not long afterward (and disappears from the movie) Harry gently tells Bradley that the evidence was right in front of his eyes if he had bothered to look." a Starbucks-like coffee shop owned by his friend Bradley  (Greg Kinnear) who boasts of his perfect marriage  to Kathryn (Selma Blair). The three of them are having coffee when Jenny (Stana Katic) seen in a women’s baseball game moments earlier plunks down beside Kathryn and puts the moves on her under her husband’s nose." Ore. with his stately wife Esther (Jane Alexander). The recent death of their only son Aaron from a heroin overdose has shaken but not shattered them. They carry on like benign surrogate parents or therapists solemnly monitoring the behavior of the film’s mixed-up younger folks." Mich.  The city shown in the movie looks as leafy and placid as the Springfield of “Father Knows Best.” This quasi-suburban Everycity is apparently insulated from the global terrors of today. There are few signs of the urban rat race and real estate is affordable. It could almost be 1975." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/28/movies/28darj.html
all of which they handle with exquisite jealous care." bandaged face and weary eyes without being reminded of his recent suicide attempt.)" Jack and Peter Whitman — express and perhaps construct their personalities largely through their attachment to things. Francis (Mr. Wilson) has an expensive leather belt which he tentatively offers as a gift to Peter (Adrien Brody) who cherishes a pair of sunglasses that once belonged to their father. The third brother Jack (Mr. Schwartzman) is a bit less of a commodity fetishist though he does have a thing for the savory snacks served on Indian trains (and for the women who serve them)." with compulsive attention to detail (perhaps a bit of self-satire on the director’s  part) and with an explicit therapeutic purpose. He wants them all to bond to be “brothers like we used to be ” to “say yes to everything.”" Peter and Jack share a huge set of luggage like those sunglasses a legacy of the father whose death hangs over their journey like a mournful mist. All those grips and valises piled onto railways cars buses donkey carts and other conveyances can be taken as a metaphor a kind of visual pun on the emotional baggage these brothers are clearly carrying around. (By the way this matched monogrammed set of symbols we learn in the credits was designed by Marc Jacobs for Louis Vuitton with “suitcase wildlife drawings” by Eric Anderson.)" Roman Coppola and Jason Schwartzman; director of photography Robert Yeoman; edited by Andrew Weisblum; music from the films of Satyajit Ray and Merchant Ivory; production designer Mark Friedberg; produced by Mr. Anderson Scott Rudin Mr. Coppola and Lydia Dean Pilcher; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running time: 91 minutes." ” Jean Renoir’s film about Indian village life and his use of music from the films of Satyajit Ray represent both an earnest tribute to those filmmakers and an admission of his own limitations. They were great directors because they extended the capacity of the art form to comprehend the world that exists. He is an intriguing and amusing director because he tirelessly elaborates on a world of his own making." in any case is a word with two meanings which both might apply to “The Darjeeling Limited.” This shaggy-dog road trip in which three semi-estranged brothers travel by rail across India is unstintingly fussy vain and self-regarding. But it is also a treasure: an odd flawed but nonetheless beautifully handmade object as apt to win affection as to provoke annoyance. You might say that it has sentimental value." high-toned tourist adventure. I don’t mean this dismissively; it would be hypocritical of me to deny the delights of luxury travel to faraway lands. And Mr. Anderson’s eye for local color — the red-orange-yellow end of the spectrum in particular — is meticulous and admiring." which visits Jack Whitman (Natalie Portman visits him too) at some point before the events chronicled in the feature will accompany “Darjeeling” on DVD but not when it opens in New York theaters tomorrow.  It is worth seeking out not only because it fleshes out part of the story of the Whitman brothers but also because on its own it is an almost perfect distillation of Mr. Anderson’s vexing and intriguing talents enigmatic affecting and wry. “The Darjeeling Limited” is an overstuffed suitcase. “Hotel Chevalier” is a small gem." “The Royal Tenenbaums” and “The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou ” this new one celebrates a sensibility at once cliquish and inclusive. It reflects the aesthetic obsessions of a tiny coterie that anyone with the price of a ticket is free to join. (Charter members include Owen Wilson one of the film’s three leading men and his co-star Jason Schwartzman who wrote the script with Mr. Anderson and Roman Coppola.)" equivalent to saying that the movie is in color that it’s set in India or that it’s 91 minutes long. It’s synonymous with saying the movie was directed by Wes Anderson. By now — “The Darjeeling Limited” is his fifth feature film — Mr. Anderson’s methods and preoccupations are as familiar as the arguments for and against them. (See an essay in the current issue of The Atlantic Monthly for the prosecution and a profile in this week’s New York magazine for the defense.) His frames are once again stuffed with carefully placed curiosities both human and inanimate; his story wanders from whimsy to melancholy; his taste in music clothes cars and accessories remains eccentric and impeccable." though a short stay may be preferable to an extended sojourn. At the New York Film Festival — where it will be shown as the opening-night selection this evening — “The Darjeeling Limited” will be preceded by a short written and directed by Mr. Anderson called “Hotel Chevalier.”" drug use and profanity." but it is also a realm of melancholy and frustration as if all the cool exotic bric-a-brac had been amassed to compensate for a persistent feeling of emptiness. The Whitman boys may seem happy-go-lucky but on closer inspection they don’t look very happy at all." and the friction that arises from their resistance gives “The Darjeeling Limited” its off-kilter comic texture. The movie may be designed  within an inch of its life but there is life in it all the same an open relaxed narrative rhythm that cuts against the tight visual arrangements." Adrien Brody (Peter) Jason Schwartzman (Jack) Anjelica Huston (Patricia) Amara Karan (Rita) Camilla Rutherford (Alice) and Irrfan Khan (Village Father)." for instance is less a dramatic crisis than an aesthetic opportunity a chance for the brothers (and the filmmakers) to explore another aspect of the beauty and mystery of India." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/26/movies/26bani.html
and with such eloquence. I couldn’t help  comparing  these images with those in one of my own photo albums of a large family of stern-looking Midwesterners dressed in what looks like their Sunday best. The rough ill-fitting suits and somber dresses look similar to those in the documentary and the simple clapboard house looming behind this family recalls comparable homes in “Banished.” There are once again few smiles though in one photo my grandfather then around 12 looks as if he’s trying to keep one in check." which only casts glances at Reconstruction the question of reparations and the bitter enduring living legacy of slavery. Although Mr. Williams somewhat overstates his case when he says that racial cleansing has “remained hidden ” there’s no denying that this ugly chapter deserves more than an occasional well-meaning documentary. (A national day of mourning might be a good start.) The 1997 fiction film “Rosewood” recounted one such expulsion that took place in central Florida in the 1920s and journalists activists and descendants including those who appear in “Banished ” have dug into the archives and sifted through the evidence. Mr. Williams has done his own part to shed needed light though I wish he had dug longer harder." " about the forced expulsion of black Southerners from their homes in the troubled and violent decades after the Civil War. Dressed in what looks like their Sunday best in dark suits and high-collar dresses they stare solemnly into an unwelcoming world. A couple ride in a cart along a pretty country road and others stand awkwardly before houses with peeling paint. There are few smiles. Photography was then a serious business though being a black landowner part of a fragile nascent Southern middle class was more serious still.""here are ghosts haunting Marco Williams’s quietly sorrowful documentary "Banished " about the forced expulsion of black Southerners from their homes in the troubled and violent decades after the Civil War. Dressed in what looks like their Sunday best in dark suits and high-collar dresses they stare solemnly into an unwelcoming world. A couple ride in a cart along a pretty country road and others stand awkwardly before houses with peeling paint. There are few smiles. Photography was then a serious business though being a black landowner ""ere are ghosts haunting Marco Williams’s quietly sorrowful documentary "Banished " about the forced expulsion of black Southerners from their homes in the troubled and violent decades after the Civil War. Dressed in what looks like their Sunday best in dark suits and high-collar dresses they stare solemnly into an unwelcoming world. A couple ride in a cart along a pretty country road and others stand awkwardly before houses with peeling paint. There are few smiles. P""re are ghosts haunting Marco Williams’s quietly sorrowful documentary "Banished " about the forced expulsion of black Southerners from their homes in the troubled and violent decades after the Civil War. Dressed in what looks like their Sunday best in dark suits and high-collar dresses they stare solemnly into an unwelcoming world. A couple ride in a cart along a pretty country road and others st""e are ghosts haunting Marco Williams’s quietly sorrowful documentary "Banished " about the forced expulsion of black Southerners from their homes in the troubled and violent decades after the Civil War. Dressed in what looks like their Sunday best in dark suits and high-collar dresses they stare solemnly into an unwelcoming wor"" are ghosts haunting Marco Williams’s quietly sorrowful documentary "Banished " about the forced expulsion of black Southerners from their homes in the troubled and violent decades after the Civil War. Dressed in what looks like their Sunday best in dark suits""are ghosts haunting Marco Williams’s quietly sorrowful documentary "Banished " about the forced expulsion of black Southerners from their homes in the troubled and violent decades after the Ci""re ghosts haunting Marco Williams’s quietly sorrowful documentary "Banished " about the forced expulsion of black Southerner""e ghosts haunting Marco Williams’s quietly sorrowful docu" N.C. published a series about an 1898 white riot to destroy a political alliance between blacks and poor whites in Wilmington N.C. where the literacy rates for black men were higher than those for whites. One agitator a former Confederate soldier and the future mayor of Wilmington vowed that he and other like-minded whites would never surrender “even if we have to choke the Cape Fear River with carcasses.” What followed was a coup d’état possibly the only time that a municipal government was toppled in American history. Black residents were murdered; the local black newspaper was torched and survivors exiled. Reconstruction died and Jim Crow moved right in." Stephen McCarthy; edited by Kathryn Barnier and Sandra Christie; music by David Murray; produced by Mr. Williams and Ms. Harris. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 87 minutes. This film is not rated." my grandfather  raised a family and ran a business not far from where his photographs were taken —  an upstanding white citizen in a nearly all-white land. The young black men in “Banished” never had the chance to take root. Some were falsely accused of molesting white women and were lynched. We see a few of these dead in other photographs hanging from trees and lampposts their bodies sometimes surrounded by a visibly excited white crowd. (A crude sign under one corpse warns not to wake him.) As Mr. Williams explains his measured voice-over calm as ever lynching was an instrument of terror used against blacks as a means of control and “racial cleansing.”" even when seated across from a Ku Klux Klan leader who says he wouldn’t be happy if this African-American  director moved in next door. The Klan leader lives in a nice-looking house adorned with white supremacist banners in Forsyth County Ga. which in 1912 brutally expelled an estimated 1 000 of its black residents. Mr. Williams guides us through this terrible history often while strolling on camera through the scene of the crime talking to white residents and dredging up memories. He also uncovers some repellent images of a white mob trying to stop a peaceful interracial civil rights march in the county in 1987. The marchers sing “We Shall Overcome.” The mob throws rocks." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/24/movies/24evil.html
guns and a truck fitted with a cow-catcher." “Resident Evil: Extinction” is the third installment in the video-game-derived series of films starring Milla Jovovich as Alice a superhuman warrior fighting zombie hordes." based on Capcom’s video game; director of photography David Johnson; edited by Niven Howie; music by Charlie Clouser; production designer Eugenio Caballero; creature designer Patrick Tatopoulos; produced by Bernd Eichinger Samuel Hadida Robert Kulzer Jeremy Bold and Mr. Anderson; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 100 minutes." Russell Mulcahy (“Highlander”) pulls off a few decent set pieces including attacks by skinless dogs and Hitchcock-inspired clouds of glassy-eyed undead crows. But they have no weight because there’s no characterization or emotion just slick mayhem." but that seems less a tacit admission of a dip in quality than of the fact that all the films are just noisy time killers about as engrossing as watching someone else play a video game." played by Iain Glen a recurring cast member) is testing clones of Alice hoping to use immunities in her blood to develop a vaccine to control the infection." Oded Fehr (Carlos Oliveira) Ali Larter (Claire Redfield) Iain Glen (Dr. Isaacs) Ashanti (Nurse Betty) and Mike Epps (L. J.)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/21/movies/21wild.html
Mr. McCandless set off on a zigzagging two-year journey that took him from South Dakota to Southern California from the Sea of Cortez to the Alaskan wilderness where he perished apparently from starvation in August 1992. “Into the Wild ” which Mr. Penn wrote and directed follows faithfully in his footsteps and it illuminates the young man’s personality by showing us the world as he saw it." ” Sean Penn’s adaptation of the nonfiction bestseller by Jon Krakauer. The story begins with an unhappy family proceeds through a series of encounters with the lonely and the lost and ends in a senseless premature death. But though the film’s structure may be tragic its spirit is anything but. It is infused with an expansive almost giddy sense of possibility and it communicates a pure unaffected delight in open spaces fresh air and bright sunshine." on the contrary alive to the mysteries and difficulties of experience in a way that very few recent American movies have been. There are some awkward moments and infelicitous touches — a few too many Eddie Vedder songs on the soundtrack for example when Woody Guthrie Aaron Copland or dead silence might have been more welcome — but the film’s imperfection like its grandeur arises from a passionate generous impulse that is as hard to resist as the call of the open road." parts of which are scrawled across the screen in bright yellow capital letters he revels in the simple beauty of the natural world. Adopting the pseudonym Alexander Supertramp rejecting material possessions and human attachments he proclaims himself an “aesthetic voyager.”" not least by Mr. Penn who has shown himself in three previous films (“The Indian Runner ” “The Crossing Guard” and “The Pledge”) to be a thoughtful and skilled director. He still is but this story seems to have liberated him from the somber seriousness that has been his hallmark as a filmmaker until now. “Into the Wild” is a movie about the desire for freedom that feels in itself like the fulfillment of that desire." Chris is in many ways the intellectual heir of 19th-century writer-naturalists like John Muir and especially Henry David Thoreau whose uncompromising idealism — “rather than love than money than fame give me truth” — he takes as a watchword. (Had he survived Mr. McCandless might well have joined the ranks of latter-day nature writers like Edward Abbey and Bill McKibben.) His credo is perhaps most succinctly stated by Thoreau’s mentor Ralph Waldo Emerson who advised that “the ancient precept ‘Know thyself ’ and the modern precept ‘Study Nature ’ become at last one maxim.”" in which Gael García Bernal played Che Guevara found a political dimension in its hero’s journey. And while Chris’s fierce rejection of his parents’ middle-class suburban life contains elements of ideological critique Mr. Penn and Mr. Krakauer persuasively place him in a largely apolitical homegrown tradition of radical romantic individualism." based on the book by Jon Krakauer; director of photography Eric Gautier; edited by Jay Cassidy; score by Michael Brook with songs and additional music by Eddie Vedder and Kaki King; production designer Derek R. Hill; produced by Mr. Penn Art Linson and Bill Pohlad; released by Paramount Vantage. Running time: 140 minutes." reach out and grab it ” Chris says to Tracy (Kristen Stewart) a teenage girl who develops a crush on him collapsing Self-Reliance into something like an advertising slogan. But the movie’s theme thankfully is not so simple or so easily summed up in words." but all of them respond to something about him:  an open guileless quality at once earnest and playful that Mr. Hirsch conveys with intuitive grace. “You look like a loved kid ” Jan says and “Into the Wild” bears that out in nearly every scene." Marcia Gay Harden (Billie McCandless) William Hurt (Walt McCandless) Jena Malone (Carine) Brian Dierker (Rainey) Catherine Keener (Jan Burres) Vince Vaughn (Wayne Westerberg) Kristen Stewart (Tracy) and Hal Holbrook (Ron Franz)." brief nudity and some violent or otherwise upsetting scenes." with disarming sincerity it emphasizes his capacity for love the gift for fellowship that somewhat paradoxically accompanied his fierce need for solitude. Though he warns one of his friends against seeking happiness in human relationships — and also rails incoherently against the evils of “society” — Chris is a naturally sociable creature. And “Into the Wild” is populated with marvelous actors — including Mr. Dierker a river guide and ski-shop owner making his first appearance in a film — who make its human landscape as fascinating and various as its topography." and of the melancholy that tugs at the film’s happy-go-lucky spirit is traced to his parents (William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden) whose volatile marriage and regard for appearances begin to seem contemptible to their son. (His feelings for them are explained in voice-over by his younger sister Carine who is played by Jena Malone.)" even more than Mr. Krakauer takes the Emersonian dimension of Chris McCandless’s project seriously even as he understands the peril implicit in too close an identification with nature. The book took pains to defend its young protagonist against the suspicion that he was suicidal unbalanced or an incompetent outdoorsman gathering testimony from friends he had made in his last years as evidence of his kindness his care and his integrity. The film at some risk of sentimentalizing its hero goes further pushing him to the very brink of sainthood. After Chris offers wise sympathetic counsel to Rainey (Brian Dierker) a middle-aged hippie he has befriended on the road the older man looks at him with quiet amazement. “You’re not Jesus are you?” he asks." but it’s a comparison that Mr. Penn does not entirely discourage. (Note the final man of sorrows image of Mr. Hirsch’s face and also an earlier shot of him floating naked in a stream his arms extended in a familiar cruciform shape.) At the same time though “Into the Wild” resists the impulse to interpret Chris’s death as a kind of martyrdom or as the inevitable logical terminus of his passionate desire for communion with nature." Chris finds himself drawn almost unwittingly to parental surrogates: a rowdy grain dealer in South Dakota (Vince Vaughn) a retired military man in the California desert (Hal Holbrook) and Rainey’s companion Jan (Catherine Keener) who seems both carefree and careworn." the young adventurer whose footloose life and gruesome fate were the subject of Mr. Krakauer’s book. As Mr. Penn understands him (and as he is portrayed with unforced charm and brisk intelligence by Emile Hirsch) Chris is at once a troubled impulsive boy and a brave and dedicated spiritual pilgrim. He does not court danger but rather stumbles across it — thrillingly and then fatally — on the road to joy." the canyons and deserts farther south the wheat fields of the northern prairie and Alaska a place that Mr. McCandless seemed to regard with almost mystical reverence. Mr. Penn who did some of the camera work was aided by the director of photography Eric Gautier who previously turned his careful voracious eye on the wilds of South America in Walter Salles’s “Motorcycle Diaries.” That movie like “Into the Wild ” finds epic resonance in a tale of youthful wandering and proposes that a trek through mountains rivers and forests can also be a voyage of self-discovery." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/21/movies/21anto.html
“Antonia” explores cultural and sexual oppression with sensitivity and verve. The story may lack complexity but it is loaded with irrepressible energy and a deep appreciation of female friendship. And that’s always something to sing about." “Antonia” pulses with color and movement. Filmed in the São Paulo suburb of Vila Brasilândia the movie has an earthy realism underscored by naturalistic performances and a restless camera. Maximizing her nonprofessional cast of Brazilian hip-hop performers the director fills the soundtrack with a vibrant blend of R&B soul and rap. When the group sings an a cappella version of “Killing Me Softly ” you may forget to breathe." Newark and Los Angeles." “Antonia” traces a year in the lives of four young women who form a rap group and fend off tragedy." posturing chauvinists and a violent hate crime." Cindy (Lena) Leilah Moreno (Barbarah) Quelynah (Mayah) and Marcus Vinicius Kamau (Dante)." with English subtitles) by Roberto Moreira and Ms. Amaral; director of photography Jacob Sarmento Solitrenick; edited by Idê Lacreta; music by Beto Villares and Parteum; production designer Rafael Ronconi; produced by Geórgia Costa Araújo and Ms. Amaral; released by Anywhere Road. Running time: 90 minutes." Preta (Negra Li) Lena (Cindy) Barbarah (Leilah Moreno) and Mayah (Quelynah) — all successful musicians in real life — rehearse their own music and acquire an agent. But when the group falls prey to brutal violence internal jealousies and an unplanned pregnancy the girls learn that escape from poverty will require more than fierce rhymes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/21/movies/21sydn.html
she finds refuge at the Vortex a ramshackle house inhabited by the seven biggest geeks  on campus. One’s bashful another one’s sleepy ... you get the drift. Together they rally to steal the student body presidency from Sydney’s nemesis Rachel ahem Witchburn (Sara Paxton) the still-pining ex of Sydney’s potential Prince Charming Tyler ahem Prince (Matt Long) who’s as generic as his fairy-tale equivalents." for there’s nothing sophisticated about the comedy in this peppy ultra-P.C. variation on “Snow White.” Here Ms. White is a handy girl raised by her plumber father (the better-with-age John Schneider) who enrolls at her late mother’s alma mater hoping to join the sorority Mom cherished." Mark Irwin; edited by Danny Saphire; music by Deborah Lurie; production designer Mark Garner; produced by James G. Robinson Clifford Werber and David Robinson; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 105 minutes." but could easily pass for PG." Ernst Lubitsch’s tomboy heroine played by Jennifer Jones in 1946 Sydney White (Amanda Bynes) makes tool-wielding women sexy." Sara Paxton (Rachel) Matt Long (Tyler Prince) Jack Carpenter (Lenny) Jeremy Howard (Terrance)  and John Schneider (Paul)." “Sydney White” is unlikely to muster the staying power of say “Revenge of the Nerds ” the raunchy underdog-power trailblazer from 1984. But Ms. Bynes with her cherubic face expressive eyes and comic timing helps create a positive pleasing diversion that caters to the geek in all of us." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/21/movies/21quix.html
the film’s emotional payoffs are devastating. They include a moment in which Quixote advises Sancho to renew his strength through prayer a scene in which the two stare up at the sky accompanied by a rare burst of mournful acoustic guitar music and Quixote’s near-final summation of his beliefs which could double as Mr. Serra’s artistic philosophy: “Chivalry is the reasoning of action.”" inspects trees ignores flies crawling on his armor or stares off into the distance while Sancho sits patiently awaiting orders. This film’s opening section observes Quixote waiting for Sancho to fix a piece of his armor then asking Sancho to make him a laurel wreath." with English subtitles) by Mr. Serra based on the novel “El Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quijote de la Mancha” by Miguel de Cervantes and a story by Mr. Serra Jimmy Gimferrer and Montse Triola; directors of photography Christophe Farnarier and Eduard Grau; edited by Àngel Martin; production designer Mr. Gimferrer; music by Ferrant Font. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 110 minutes. This film is not rated." Don Quixote (Lluís Carbó) and his sidekick Sancho Panza (Lluís Serrat) the film’s writer and director Albert Serra favors landscape imagery and natural sounds over dialogue and music." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/21/movies/21man.html
Hugo is humanized by the mention of his work with dying AIDS patients abandoned by their families. The most awkward moment arrives late in the movie when his grown-up daughter of whom we knew nothing suddenly appears." with English subtitles) by Ms. Breitman and Agnès de Sacy; director of photography Michel Amathieu; edited by Richard Marizy; music by Laurent Karcia and Liviu Badiu; production designer Pierre Queffelean; produced by Philippe Godeau; released by Strand Releasing. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 114 minutes. This film is not rated." though it feels more theoretical than based on any  physical attraction. As they watch young lovers doing the tango at a country dance Frédéric envisages a lifetime of happiness for the couple while Hugo sees two romantic fools momentarily blinded by desire." ” the French director Zabou Breitman and her screenwriting partner Agnès de Sacy examine male bonding from a feminine perspective. As it ponders father-son relationships and the quasi-erotic attraction between two middle-aged men one straight the other gay this soft-hearted movie portrays both men and women as coming from Venus; forget about Mars. The men talk about relationships not sports and when they go jogging they don’t compete. When one man twists his ankle the other tenderly carries him home on his back." “The Man of My Life” wants to rejuvenate the Gallic genre I call déjeuner sur l’herbe with contemporary themes. Within a short distance of the stone house in the lush Provence countryside where most of the movie takes place is a gay disco in which techno music blasts." Charles Berling (Hugo) Léa Drucker (Frédérique) and Niels Lexcellent (Arthur)." a chemist in his late 40s and his beautiful younger wife Frédérique (Léa Drucker) spend an afternoon making love in the stone house in which their extended family has gathered for a summer vacation. Life is a movable feast of idyllic picnics barbecues and outings in a rural paradise." who was thrown out of the house by his father after telling him that he was gay is scornful of family ties and lives for the moment. Warm-hearted Frédéric can’t imagine a father rejecting a son for any reason. Their all-night conversation to which the movie flashes back several times is the kind of dialogue found in the films of Eric Rohmer the undisputed master of déjeuner sur l’herbe. But compared with Mr. Rohmer’s debates this one seems incomplete and superficial. It is up to the two leading actors both very good to give it depth." a lean graphic designer with cold pinprick eyes who is around his age to a cookout his guest momentarily stops the conversation dead by defiantly announcing that he is  gay. After the party ends Frédéric and Hugo stay up until dawn comparing their philosophies of love and life." Frédéric begins losing sexual interest in his wife who sinks into despair. Their young son Arthur (Niels Lexcellent) who has been dashing around in a superhero’s cape and mask suddenly starts having nightmares. Whether its creators realize it their movie paints Hugo as the poisonous snake in this Garden of Eden." a mysterious illuminated cabin nearby which Frédéric and Hugo visit in the middle of the night to peek through the windows at a string quartet playing romantic music —  add strains of mystery that enrich the film’s sensuous texture but add nothing to its substance." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/21/movies/21chuc.html
in case “Balls of Fury” didn’t satisfy your need to be reminded of his existence). Ms. Alba’s character is crazy about penguins. Her brother (Lonny Ross) smokes a lot of pot. Apparently the very notion of fat women having sex is screamingly hilarious though not as funny as the image of a three-breasted woman or a chubby man having sex with a grapefruit. (Typing that phrase turns out to be kind of amusing but trust me you don’t need to see it.)" his co-star acquired her acting credentials by similar means is an issue that will be addressed if she ever tries to act. To be fair (but why?) she does expend a little effort in “Good Luck Chuck ” pretending to be goofy and clumsy doing stuff like running into a metal pole catching her skirt in a car door and upending a tray of dentist’s instruments." Anthony B. Richmond; edited by Julia Wong; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer Mark Freeborn; produced by Mike Karz Barry Katz and Brian Volk-Weiss; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 96 minutes." Jessica Alba (Cam) Dan Fogler (Stu) Ellia English (Reba) Sasha Pieterse (Goth Girl) Lonny Ross (Joe) and Chelan Simmons (Carol)." Chuck gets a lot of action but then —  after a long split-screen montage of his priapic exertions —  he starts to feel empty and used. Me too. But if the logic of  “Good Luck Chuck” holds the next movie I see should be a masterpiece." one of the stars of “Good Luck Chuck ” described as a comedian. I find this confusing since my understanding is that comedians are people who say and do things that are funny. Perhaps Mr. Cook is some new kind of conceptual satirist whose shtick is to behave in the manner of a person attempting to be funny without actually being you know funny. Or maybe he answered an ad in the back of a magazine and sent away for a mail-order license to practice comedy." who’s about to take off for Antarctica. I mean come on!" which will make “Good Luck Chuck” a must-see for young men with a subscription to Maxim but no access to the Internet. The intended viewership seems to consist of guys who fantasize about sleeping with Ms. Alba which may represent a reasonably large share of the population. The actual paying audience however will more likely be those poor deluded souls — they’ve Hi-lited all the relevant passages of that notorious pickup manual “The Game” — who think they might really have a shot." penis jokes and a cavalcade of wildly unoriginal ideas." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/21/movies/21aust.html
aren’t novels that fall under that noxiously condescending rubric contrived to reassure readers by offering them secondhand problem-solving advice? Like it or not Jane Austen is a rock on which the genre was founded. So why shouldn’t a novel and the movie adapted from it acknowledge the connection in a way that is smart and amusing as well as comforting?" Maria Bello (Jocelyn) Emily Blunt (Prudie) Amy Brenneman (Sylvia) Hugh Dancy (Grigg) Maggie Grace (Allegra) Lynn Redgrave (Mama Sky) Jimmy Smits (Daniel) Marc Blucas (Dean) Kevin Zegers (Trey) Parisa Fitz-Henley (Corinne) Gwendolyn Yeo (Dr. Samantha Yep) and Nancy Travis (Cat)." who invites him into the group as a potential boyfriend for Sylvia and keeps trying to throw them together never realizing that she herself is the one he wants. Her unlikely naïveté and his unlikely shyness gives the movie an Austen-like narrative gloss." drawn into the group after meeting Bernadette in line at an Austen film festival is a beautiful prim married high school French teacher. To her recently acquired husband Dean (Marc Blucas) an uncommunicative sports nut the author’s name only conjures the capital of Texas. As their marriage falters she is pursued by Trey (Kevin Zegers) a handsome senior. One of the movie’s few surreal touches is a traffic sign that flashes “What would Jane do?” as Prudie contemplates meeting him in a motel." and all are attractive. Grigg (Hugh Dancy) the lone man has been transformed from a temp in a university linguistics department in his 40s into a cute-as-a-button Silicon Valley techie and possible genius in his early 30s. Having grown up with three older sisters this puppyish man-child and science-fiction fanatic who compares an Austen novel to “The Empire Strikes Back” is charmingly feminized without being effeminate." the group’s founder is a six-times-married dynamo in her mid-50s who is both free-spirited and maternal. Her close friend Jocelyn (Maria Bello) a control freak and dog fancier who breeds Rhodesian Ridgebacks fancies herself above the human mating game." the film adroitly shuffles nine characters (five women and four men) and throws in a too-brief cameo by Lynn Redgrave as one woman’s dissipated post-hippie mother." which meets monthly to discuss a different Austen novel at each session Austen’s books serve as mirrors and Rorschach tests in which the members recognize themselves and their romantic peccadilloes. The discussions in these  group-therapy sessions lead them toward solutions to their problems. The screenplay includes just enough references to characters and plot developments in Austen novels to whet your appetite for reading or rereading them but not so many that it alienates the uninitiated." ” a fantasy of Austen’s youthful love life. Like the other movies and television projects in a Jane Austen boom that continues to gather momentum it is an entertaining carefully assembled piece of clockwork that imposes order on ever more complicated gender warfare." literate adaptation of Karen Joy Fowler’s 2004 best seller that your impulse is to forgive it for being the formulaic feel-good chick flick that it is." who live in Sacramento analyze the behavior of the characters in her novels the movie is also a savvy course on how to read a novel of manners. If that novel has any depth the characters’ motives are open to interpretation. Is a knight in shining armor really Mr. Right? Does a happy ending really augur happily ever after? What are so-and-so’s real motivations?" John Toon; edited by Maryann Brandon; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer Rusty Smith; produced by John Calley Julie Lynn and Diana Napper; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 105 minutes." when it suggests that a clueless macho boor pressured to read Austen by his neglected wife is magically transformed into a cuddly enlightened tomcat purring with empathy. I didn’t believe it for a minute. But I like the idea of a great British author from another century casting such a spell. If Shakespeare can do it why not Austen?" happily married for 25 years imagines she has it all then falls apart when her husband Daniel (Jimmy Smits) breaks the news that he is having an affair with a woman in his law firm and wants to end their marriage. The couple’s lesbian 20-ish daughter Allegra (Maggie Grace) who has an active love life and a secret addiction to extreme sports like skydiving moves back home to keep Sylvia company." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/21/movies/21assa.html
rude language." a thug who lived by the gun and repeatedly killed in cold blood remains unanswered by the film and its makers. And perhaps that isn’t a question worth asking. This is after all meant to be an evening’s entertainment and its burdens should remain modest even if its goals are not. Its revelations aside from Mr. Affleck’s performance which manages to make the character seem dumb and the actor wily and smart are nonexistent. The true story of Jesse James despite all the dime novels and B movies remains untold perhaps because in its savagery it really is as American as apple pie and as such unspeakably hard to tell." “The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford” is about a murder the last violent chapter in a cruelly violent life. As such it’s also about a celebrity stalker a kind of Mark David Chapman in spurs who nurses an annihilating love for the object of his obsession. It’s an obsession fueled and fanned by the media including the sympathetic newsmen who saw James as a heroic anti-Reconstructionist and the fiction writers who memorialized and even exalted the brutal exploits of his gang. Like a schoolgirl with a crush Bob Ford keeps his treasured Jesse James dime novels in a box under his bed. When he caresses the cover of one book it’s as if he were tenderly stroking a lover’s cheek." at once central and indistinct but then so too is the character. Based on the novel of the same title by Ron Hansen the film introduces James at the beginning of his end. Hunkered down in some woods surrounded by darkly dressed men and leafless birch trees and framed by Roger Deakins’s impeccable stark high-contrast cinematography he looks a vision. This isn’t just Jesse James — it’s also Jim Morrison at the Whisky in 1966 with a dash of Laurence Olivier a touch of Warren Beatty and more than a hint of Ralph Lauren. It’s the beautiful bad man knowing and doomed awaiting his fate like some Greco-Hollywood hero rather than the psychotic racist of historical record." pleasing image whatever the case pretty as a picture postcard a vision of man and nature that brings to mind Thoreau at Walden Pond or more precisely Terrence Malick’s “Days of Heaven.” James is also facing West of course toward the last frontier home to cowboys and Indians and prospectors of all types including soon enough those who will wield movie cameras not six-shooters." if not much rhyme or reason heart or soul. Topped by Brad Pitt wearing boot-black hair and a faraway stare this is a portrait of the murderer as a middle-aged man as seen through the curious mirror of celebrity. At a well-seasoned 34 James lives in an ordinary house in an ordinary town where he sits in his backyard smoking cigars and handling snakes a devil playing at preacher. His days with Confederacy guerrillas are long gone as are most of his crimes. Among his closest companions now is his greatest fan Bob Ford a gunslinger slyly played by Casey Affleck." based on the novel by Ron Hansen; director of photography Roger Deakins; edited by Dylan Tichenor and Curtiss  Clayton; music by Nick Cave and Warren Ellis; produced by Brad Pitt Dede Gardner Ridley Scott Jules Daly and David Valdes; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 150 minutes." you won’t find it here despite a coy bathtub scene that finds James luxuriating in milky water while the younger man hovers uncertainly nearby. “You want to be like me or do you want to be me?” asks James casting his glance back at the man others would later brand Judas. In this nearly all-male world of camaraderie and gunsmoke where little women bustle discreetly in the background (including Mary-Louise Parker as James’s wife Zee) the ways of the flesh of heaving stinking struggling humanity have little place. For all their exploded bone and ravaged pulp their trickles and rivulets of blood the men in this film aren’t as much bodies as beautiful empty signifiers." Jesse James cut a bloody swath through parts of the Midwest and the South leaving a trail of corpses and favorable press notices in his wake. Bad man poor man bushwhacker thief James was as American as apple pie and the Confederate flag he wrapped himself in like an excuse. That bard of the great unwashed Woody Guthrie compared him to Robin Hood and decades later Bruce Springsteen kept the fires burning singing about a homespun legend  as seductive as it is false." James might have saddled up for the movies and indeed his own son played him in the 1921 film “Jesse James Under the Black Flag.” When “The Assassination” opens in September 1881 shortly before his final train robbery and seven months before his death James was already a star of sorts a living if fast-aging legend a favorite newspaper subject a government target and the featured attraction in hundreds of dime novels with titles like “The James Boys and the Vigilantes.”  Mr. Pitt is himself a supernova luminary of course and part of the attraction of this film is how his celebrity feeds into that of his character adding shadings to what is finally an overconceptualized if under-intellectualized endeavor." which  rarely align with those of history. Taken on its own narrow heavily aestheticized and poetic-realist terms then “The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford” works. The cinematography may speak to Mr. Dominik’s yearning for meaning and importance more than it does of his outlaw but the visuals often dazzle and enthrall. (The images that approximate the blurred distortions characteristic of pinhole photography are especially striking.) They also distract and after a while help weigh down the film which sinks under the heaviness of images so painstakingly art directed so fetishistically lighted and adorned that there isn’t a drop of life left in them. Instead of daguerreotype Mr. Dominik works in stone." Casey Affleck (Robert Ford) Sam Shepard (Frank James) Mary-Louise Parker (Zee James) Paul Schneider (Dick Liddil) Jeremy Renner (Wood Hite) Zooey Deschanel (Dorothy) and Sam Rockwell (Charley Ford)." “Chopper” (2000) the New Zealand-born director Andrew Dominik seemed on the same wavelength as his raucous at times queasy entertaining subject the ultrabrutal criminal reprobate of the title played by Eric Bana. Neither overtly sympathetic nor disapproving the filmmaker presented his villain as a larger-than-life but unequivocally human grotesque. Using color like an Expressionist he bleached the screen a sizzling white that turned  blood red nearly black and splashed on hues of bilious green and urine yellow as if to suggest that Chopper’s fluids had leaked from his body to contaminate his surroundings. The colors sicken and beguile as does the human riddle at their center." Los Angeles and Toronto." ” staring into a florid sunset slashes of red cutting across the sky. Dressed in near-all black the question mark known as Jesse James stands away from the camera knee-deep in a golden grassy field stirred by the wind or perhaps just an off-screen mechanical fan." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/21/movies/21adri.html
who also directs) hovers around three miserable interlocking lives. At the center is Rose (Heather Graham) an ophthalmologist grieving for her dead son and unresponsive to her estranged husband (William Baldwin). Moping attractively in the park Rose is spied by Simon (Victor Rasuk) a skeevy shutterbug with a deeply disturbed mother (a spicy Marlene Forte) and a stalker’s itinerary." William Baldwin (Mark Phipps) Victor Rasuk (Simon Colon) Dominic Chianese (Tommaso Pensara) Elizabeth Peña (Isabel Parades) Erika Michels (Claire Phipps) Marlene Forte (Marta Colon) and Richard Petrocelli (Mr. Sneider)." based on a story by Mr. de Villa; director of photography John Foster; edited by John Coniglio; music by Michael A. Levine; production designer Charlotte Bourke; produced by Steven J. Brown and Joshua Blum; released by Screen Media Films. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 93 minutes. This film is not rated." “Adrift in Manhattan” looks dreamy and feels even less substantial. Laboring to connect the damaged dots Mr. De Villa and his screenwriter Nat Moss resort to extreme implausibility — creepy lurkers in knit caps are unlikely to receive sexual overtures from upscale women — and unexplained encounters. If there are eight million stories in the Naked City some of them must be better than this." “Adrift in Manhattan” is an all-too-familiar wallow in urban woe and artfully photographed isolation." Rose is forecasting imminent blindness for Tommaso (Dominic Chianese) an elderly artist and mailroom worker who’s diffidently wooing a much younger colleague (the always-excellent Elizabeth Peña). There may be a shortage of available men in Manhattan but you’d think she could find one not suffering from macular degeneration." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/19/movies/19wint.html
oiling the machinery filling in the blanks and ably hitting their marks: a mechanic named Motor (the reliable Kevin Corrigan); another scientist Elliot (a very fine Jamie Harrold); a stray lamb Maxwell (Zach Gilford); a smiling cook Dawn (Joanne Shenandoah); and a mystery man with piercing eyes Lee (Pato Hoffmann) who seems to know more than anyone else but doesn’t ask and never tells." an expansive imagination and a smooth-moving camera. (A fine cast helps.)  An heir to the Val Lewton school of elegantly restrained horror wherein an atmosphere of dread counts far more than a bucket of blood and some slippery entrails the director Larry Fessenden is among the most thoughtful Americans working on the lower-budget end of this oft-abused and mindlessly corrupted genre." a gesture or even louder silences. Twisting his lips and adjusting his glasses Elliot puts Hoffman into an even more eccentric light than he might otherwise appear undermining our faith in the very character (the lead perhaps the hero) toward whom the film seems to be nudging us." adding pathos and urgency to the creeping unease. Here when someone’s nose begins to bleed it isn’t long before that drip turns into a gusher." ” crawling through the hallways and howling into the dread night. Set in the blinding white beauty of the Alaskan wilderness (though mostly shot in Iceland) the story brings us close to a small research team scouting the crude commercial possibilities for a large oil concern. Under the corporate rubric of “energy independence ” the company hopes to drill through the permafrost a scheme that promises shivers that have nothing to do with the cold. Ah but the ice is melting melting which makes the truth as inconvenient as it is deadly." of course: for the wind-battered and sunburned team running the outpost debased life will soon beget anguished death drop by bloody drop. But first there are signs and visions cawing black birds and mysteriously thundering hooves." “The Last Winter ” written by Robert Leaver and Mr. Fessenden breathes fresh air into a stale setup (an isolated group gone stir crazy or something) by insisting that our everyday horrors aren’t a matter of arid news reports but of feverishly real terrifying life." as well as of his trustworthiness hovers over the story leaking into the camp hallways like a gas. With his soft youthful face glazed red-brick and partly obscured by his beard Mr. Le Gros invests the character with sympathy without making him especially likable. There’s something closed off about this man despite his nocturnal visits and talks with Abby as if he’d already surrendered part of himself to some other force. He’s the first to sound the alarm though it isn’t initially clear if his early warnings delivered with mad-prophet quiet and ominously scribbled research notebooks mean that he’s the canary in the coal mine or the cat in the birdhouse. Our desire for a hero is as unsettling as it is instructive." ” every man and woman eventually looks like a blot on the landscape like a mistake. Working with the Icelandic cinematographer G. Magni Agustsson Mr. Fessenden makes great expressive use of his natural canvas and its negative space playing with the depth of field so that the whiteness either seems to stretch on forever or suddenly flatten at times turning these fully dimensional human figures into silhouetted cutouts." James Le Gros (James Hoffman) Connie Britton (Abby Sellers) Zach Gilford (Maxwell McKinder) Kevin Corrigan (Motor) Jamie Harrold (Elliot Taylor) Pato Hoffmann (Lee Means) and Joanne Shenandoah (Dawn Russell)." Hoffman (James Le Gros) stares into the surrounding wild whiteness like a writer searching for words for anything in front of a never-ending and terrifyingly empty sheet of paper. At night he slips into the obliterating darkness with a company true believer Abby (Connie Britton) who once offered shelter to the team’s boisterous leader Pollack (Ron Perlman) a comic-strip villain with a cigar and a mouthful of gravel and nonsense." G. Magni Agustsson; music score by Jeff Grace ambient score by Anton Sanko; production designer Halfdan Larus Pedersen; produced by Mr. Fessenden and Jeffrey Levy-Hinte; released by IFC First Take. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 100 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/19/movies/19pain.html
but “My Name Is Alan and I Paint Pictures ” by the director Johnny Boston finds a fresh way into the subject." elastic cityscapes and figurinelike caricatures suggest Thomas Hart Benton gone psychedelic." his obsession with graffiti and his struggle to sell his paintings and deal with his demons (represented in animated effects shots that place Mr. Cowan in the frame with his creations)." it’s ultimately a springboard for the movie’s lucid explanation of how creativity and mental illness interact within the brain. The film insists that  there’s medical proof of art’s healing power — that with the right mix of medication therapy and routines schizophrenics with substance-abuse problems can make creativity their sole addiction." telling the director that when he paints his dark thoughts are evicted from his mind and transferred onto canvas." Jarred Alterman; edited by Todd Drezner; music by Adam Balazs; released by Raw Media Network and Raw Films. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 76 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/19/movies/19beau.html
the story seems to be occurring  in a China of the imagination an airless place at once sensually ripe and icily formal. Like “Far From Heaven ” it denies its characters and viewers the ecstatic release they crave." “Beauty Remains” is an account of a tragic love triangle set in China in 1948 just before the Communists won the civil war." distinguished by foggy close-ups sun-blasted windows and long lenses that flatten the depth of field contributes to the sense that these hot-blooded characters are frozen by family obligations social status and the changes unfolding beyond their bedroom walls." Michael Eldridge and Wang Bin (in Mandarin with English subtitles);  director of photography Scott Kevan; edited by Sara Thorson; music by Sasha Gordon; production designers Carol Wells and Feng Li Gang; produced by Ira Deutchman Ms. Hu Han San Ping and Ren Zhong Lun; released by Emerging Pictures. Running time: 87 minutes. This film is not rated." a Chinese-born filmmaker  who lives in the United States.   The  script was written in English by Beth Schacter and Michael Eldridge translated into Mandarin by their collaborator Wang Bin and shot on location in China." the daughter of a recently deceased entrepreneur;  her half-sister Fei (Zhou Xun) the illegitimate offspring of the entrepreneur and his maid; and Huang (Wang Zhi Wen) a rakish casino owner engaged to Ying. Their trysts more talked about and suggested than seen unfold while Ying and her relatives try to welcome Fei into the family as a condition of their inheritance." Vivian Wu (Ying) Wang Zhi Wen (Huang) Lisa Lu (the Woman Gambler) Zhu Man Fang (Bai) and Shen Chang (Xiao Tian)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/15/movies/15dragon.html
because once Baraki starts to boogie “Dragon Wars” rocks. Bulcos winged carnivores munch on iron-rich helicopters. References to Ray Harryhausen and Toho productions fly. One sequence evokes “King Kong ” but with heat-seeking missiles. The seams in effects and dialogue glare but lend charm." something cranky. When Ethan Kendrick (Jason Behr) finds out he recalls being taught as a child by the mystic Jack (Robert Forster) that he is Haram reincarnated. Narin is now Sarah Daniels (Amanda Brooks). Exhale." exposition. O.K. Centuries ago in Korea there were giant serpents called Imoogi. A bad one Buraki had armored troops. A girl Narin had this glowing bubble the Yuh Yi Joo which turns Imoogi into dragons. But she and her lover-protector Haram sacrificed themselves without giving it up." but he can’t outrun cars which lets Ethan and Sarah reach New Mexico for a “Godzilla”-like rumble between Imoogi. “We’ll see each other again ” says Sarah to Ethan after the bout. Hoo-boy. Batten the hatches." take heart. “Dragon Wars: D-War” (from South Korea actually) proves the genre quite alive. It is such a breathless delirious stew it’s impossible not to be entertained provided — this is crucial — you have a sense of humor." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14univ.html
Jim Sturgess (Jude) Joe Anderson (Max) Dana Fuchs (Sadie) Martin Luther McCoy (Jo-Jo) and T. V. Carpio (Prudence)." who works for a militant antiwar organization angrily dismisses Jude’s art as “doodles and cartoons.”  He charges into her office snarls the  song “Revolution” and instigates a brawl. It is one of several moments in which “Across the Universe” grasps a central emotional duality of a culture in which rage and ecstatic idealism clashed and played into each other at the same time." sexual situations drug use mild violence and some strong language." when a solitary dreamer on a beach turns to the camera and sings unaccompanied the opening lines of the Beatles’ song “Girl ” Julie Taymor’s  ’60s musical fantasia “Across the Universe ” reveals its intention to use the Beatles’ catalog to tell two stories at once one personal the other generational. That young man Jude (Jim Sturgess) is a cheeky Liverpool dockworker with a twinkle in his eye. He quickly emerges as a winsome vocal composite of John Lennon and Paul McCartney with a personality to match." an artwork by Jude in which rows of bleeding strawberries are pinned to a white surface transmutes into a hallucination of strawberry bombs raining over Southeast Asia. Then the artist in an anguished frenzy begins smashing strawberries on the walls and floors and destroys his work." a true believer in the magic of art asks of an audience. And as the movie intensifies and she brings in a fantastic array of puppets masks and synergistic effects you may find yourself in a heightened emotional state even as you realize that what you’re seeing is unadulterated white middle-class baby boomer nostalgia." whose music today seems to exist outside of time and to the decade it remembers. Smart uncluttered musical arrangements help reposition the songs to address the situation at hand. As a result music that has congealed in collective memory  — especially the clever breezy early Beatles songs — emerges refreshed." briefly: Jude visiting the United States in search of his long-lost father meets Lucy through her brother Max (Joe Anderson) a student at Princeton where the father is discovered working as a janitor. Max takes Jude home to his stuffy family for Thanksgiving during which Max shocks his parents by announcing that he is dropping out of college. He and Jude drive to New York and settle in a sprawling East Village tenement and are soon joined by Lucy." based on a story by Ms. Taymor Mr. Clement and Mr. La Frenais; director of photography Bruno Delbonnel; edited by Françoise Bonnot; music score by Elliot Goldenthal songs by the Beatles; production designer Mark Friedberg; choreography by Daniel Ezralow; produced by Suzanne Todd Jennifer Todd and Matthew Gross; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 131 minutes." communitarian spirit it exalts. You share the joy of its blissed-out hippies in the grass. You feel the deepening friendship between Jude and Max that is sealed in Max’s incandescent performance of “Hey Jude.” And during the time it lasts the intoxicating passion of Jude and Lucy both innocents by today’s standards convinces for a moment that love is all you need." he has a morphine-induced fever dream in which the beds in his ward rear up from the floor to the song “Happiness Is a Warm Gun ” and he is tended by five Salma Hayeks. Bono appears as the acid guru Dr. Robert a Ken Kesey-Neal Cassady fusion who sings “I Am the Walrus” at an acid-drenched party and conducts Jude Lucy and a roiling band of Merry Pranksters on a delirious bus journey through a rainbow-colored countryside." “Across the Universe” captured my heart and I realized that falling in love with a movie is like falling in love with another person. Imperfections however glaring become endearing quirks once you’ve tumbled." set to  “Because ” begins with a tableau of nine friends blissfully lying on their backs in the grass in a mandala pattern. The circle disperses as Jude and Lucy find themselves in a watery blue sky where clouds melt into liquid and the entwined lovers are themselves floating underwater. Most fanciful of all is a largely animated sequence in which Eddie Izzard is Mr. Kite the ringmaster of a psychedelic circus with a dancing chorus line of “the blue people.”" a girl from upper-crust East Coast suburbia. It follows the couple as they are swept up and come apart in the evolving counterculture of left-wing politics sex drugs and rock ’n’ roll." Los Angeles San Francisco Seattle Boston Philadelphia Washington Miami and Chicago." its refusal to adopt a critical distance from the ’60s drug culture its tacit approval of the characters’ antiwar activism and its token attention to the decade’s racial strife “Across the Universe” leaves itself wide open to derision complaints and endless nitpicking. But it couldn’t have succeeded any other way. The movie is completely devoid of the protective cynicism that is now a reflexive response to the term “the ’60s.”" leans down points a giant finger and growls “I Want You (She’s So Heavy).” Inside the center a choreographed sequence finds inductees in their underwear sliding involuntarily along the floor through lines of Army officers in grim Expressionistic masks marching in robotic formation. The new recruits are next shown still in their underwear lugging a giant replica of the Statue of Liberty through the Vietnamese jungle." Sadie (Dana Fuchs who played Janis Joplin in the Off Broadway show “Love Janis”) is the movie’s resident earth mother. An aspiring rock singer she sounds like a warmer more controlled Joplin. Her triumphal “Why Don’t We Do It in the Road?” announces Lucy’s arrival in New York and later in the movie her voice hoarsely shouting “Helter Skelter” rises above the mob during a Columbia University riot at which Jude is arrested." who suggests a softened Jimi Hendrix becomes Sadie’s on-again-off-again boyfriend and sometime lead guitarist. Prudence who early in the film sings “I Want to Hold Your Hand” while gazing wistfully from afar at a blond cheerleader develops a secret crush on Sadie. While Jude embraces art Lucy who lost her first boyfriend in Vietnam gravitates toward antiwar activism after Max receives his draft notice and reluctantly leaves to fight in the war." ” in the spirit of the counterculture goes with the flow. Its scenes songs and witty roughhouse choreography spun off from the Beatles’ movies “A Hard Day’s Night” and “Help! ” dissolve into a stream of consciousness with only occasional punctuation." the actors’ natural performances and the easy colloquial dialogue by Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais (“The Commitments”) allow the characters to transcend the generic. When Lucy gazing at Jude sings “If I Fell” very slowly in a sweet trembling voice she is one girl worriedly fantasizing about one boy." a guitarist who arrives from Detroit by Greyhound after his younger brother’s death in the Detroit riots and Prudence (T.V. Carpio) an Asian-American lesbian cheerleader who hitchhikes to New York from Dayton Ohio and (in a joke on a Beatles song title) crashes into the house through the bathroom window." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14toots.html
Ms. Jacobson is a rare exception to the seemingly bottomless pool of aspiring filmmakers whose on-screen familial explorations come across as self-serving therapy sessions." Frank Gifford Mike Wallace and assorted other regulars from 51 West 51st Street home to Shor’s most celebrated joint as well as samplings of television appearances and voice recordings of the spotlight-loving Shor himself." restaurant owner and saloonkeeper extraordinaire is anything but. Instead it’s both a highly entertaining look at a man who played host and drinking buddy to many of the biggest celebrities from the 1940s and ’50s and a fascinating tour through post-Prohibition New York." but thanks to Kristi Jacobson his granddaughter it will now grace movie  marquees." as is his eventual downfall which was sparked by an inability or unwillingness to change with the times that held strong until his death in 1977. Cheers to Ms. Jacobson for keeping alive the memory of New York nightlife’s golden era and a man who embodied it." Daniel B. Gold and Tom McDonough; edited by Lewis Erskine and Penelope Falk; music by Mark Suozzo; produced by Ms. Jacobson Whitney Dow and Alicia Sams. Running time: 84 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14east.html
sex and extreme violence." though. In addition to her desire to honor the dead girl and protect the baby there seems to be a trace of the sentimental curiosity that an assimilated second-generation immigrant might feel about the old country. And then there is Nikolai the well-mannered ambitious ex-convict with slicked-back silver hair who serves as driver and wingman for Semyon’s impulsive unhappy son Kirill (Vincent Cassel)." not always stable mixture of moods and attitudes. There are as usual in Mr. Cronenberg’s films scenes of intimate brutality that you almost absorb physically rather than with your eyes. (One a grisly knife fight in a steam room with Mr. Mortensen wearing only his tattoos is likely to become a touchstone for cinema fetishists of various kinds.)" Armin Mueller-Stahl (Semyon) Vincent Cassel (Kirill) Naomi Watts (Anna) Sinead Cusack (Helen) and Jerzy Skolimowski (Stepan)." particularly as it involves women and girls from the former Soviet Union. Ms. Watts’s character Anna is a midwife at a London hospital — the daughter of a Russian father and a British mother (Sinead Cusack) — obsessed with the background of a baby she has delivered. The infant’s mother was a teenage girl who died in childbirth leaving behind a diary that chronicled her horrific exploitation and that may contain information about the identities of her tormentors." who presents himself to Semyon as both loyal and ambitious is played with flawless control by Viggo Mortensen. The immovable hair and the deep dimple in his slightly crooked chin suggest a young Kirk Douglas but Mr. Douglas was never this quiet. In “A History of Violence ” Mr. Mortensen seamlessly impersonated an ordinary decent small-town guy who was also a cold professional killer. Nikolai is a similarly ambiguous — or perhaps divided — character. He is all hard tense muscle and yet an almost subliminal hint of compassion occasionally shines through his icy impassive face." very little about “Eastern Promises” feels predictable or secondhand. From his early days making low-budget horror movies in Canada to his current ascendancy as a favorite of the international critical cognoscenti Mr. Cronenberg has always been a master of estrangement. He and his cinematographer Peter Suschitzky shoot the dark rain-slicked London streets in tones that turn the city into a sinister palpitating presence. Mr. Cronenberg’s deliberate almost stately pacing — the way he lingers in scenes for an extra beat or two as if studying the faces of his actors for clues — transforms what might have been a routine thriller into something genuinely troubling." ” like those earlier movies is fundamentally about the moral scandal of slavery the traffic in human bodies and human misery that persists in secret and in the shadows even in the modern cosmopolitan West." who speaks no Russian is innocent of the ways of the Vory but her irascible uncle Stepan (played by the veteran Polish director Jerzy Skolimowski) warns her to steer clear of them." but more often the director’s ruthless formal command rescues the story from its maudlin impulses. Mr. Knight aims earnestly for your heartstrings but Mr. Cronenberg insists on getting under your skin. The result is a movie whose images and implications are likely to stay in your head for a long time." since he is clearly as interested in the social and ethical implications of the story as he is in its twists and reversals. Among the other screenplays he has written are those for “Dirty Pretty Things ” another peek into the murky byways of multicultural London and “Amazing Grace ” a stirring biography of the 18th-century  British abolitionist William Wilberforce." set in London’s expatriate Russian underworld. The film directed by David Cronenberg from a script by Steve Knight revisits a number of themes and motifs that are staples of the genre: the ties of family and culture that bind criminal organizations; Oedipal drama; honor among thieves. The audience stumbles into this realm in the company of an innocent outsider (Naomi Watts) who finds herself at once fascinated and repelled by it as well as in considerable danger." Anna follows a trail that leads her to an elegant Russian restaurant whose proprietor Semyon (Armin Mueller-Stahl) is a soft-spoken monster with twinkly blue eyes. When he is not decorating birthday cakes for exiled dowagers Semyon leads a local chapter of the Vory v Zakone the Russian Cosa Nostra born in Stalin’s prison camps whose members are known like Japanese yakuza by the tattoos that cover their skin." Peter Suschitzky; edited by Ronald Sanders; music by Howard Shore; production designer Carol Spier; produced by Paul Webster and Robert Lantos; released by Focus Features. Running time: 100 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14dark.html
in the fields and playgrounds of suburban Baltimore a medieval fantasy world known as Darkon materializes. There more than 200 role-playing adults brandish foam swords and elaborately plotted identities in service to a complex saga of blood and glory." Karl Schroder and Hillary Spera; edited by Brad Turner; music by Jonah Rapino; produced by Ethan Palmer Tom Davis Christopher Kikis Thoma Kikis Nicholas Levis Cherise Wolas and Alan Zelenetz; released by IFC Docs Uncut. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 93 minutes. This film is not rated." the immersive appeal of live-action role-playing (LARP to the initiated) offers an escape from low self-esteem and a world without heroes or meaning. “Playing Keldar helped me become the man I wanted to be ” explains Kenyon Wells whose character’s freedom to claim land hire elvish mercenaries and purchase magic spells eases the restraints of his real-life office job." “Darkon” is haphazardly photographed but unfailingly generous toward subjects who exhibit an astonishing degree of self-awareness. “It’s like watching the TV but you’re the hero. Who doesn’t want that?” one enthusiast asks. Who indeed?" and the ordinary Joes and Janes who embody it is the fascinating subject of “Darkon ” Andrew Neel and Luke Meyer’s thoughtful documentary about a subculture that invites ridicule more often than respect. Yet the weekend warriors of “Darkon” are more than just social rejects in homemade chain mail. “I’ve always felt like I was kind of born out of time ” says Skip Lipman a k a Bannor of Laconia a stay-at-home dad bitter over his exclusion from his father’s business." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14ange.html
“The Gift ” Louise Hogarth familiarized viewers with “bug chasers ” H.I.V.-negative gay men who actively pursue positive status. In her follow-up “Angels in the Dust ” she reveals another more heart-wrenching facet of the H.I.V./AIDS pandemic by turning the camera on a group of innocent children in South Africa many of whom have contracted H.I.V. from infected parents or rapists." Marion Cloete her husband and two daughters sacrificed their cushy life in suburban Johannesburg and any semblance of privacy to provide care shelter and education for the orphans in the small village of Boikarabelo." whose population is also shrinking at an alarming rate in their case because the government kills off the adults leaving no one to provide for the young. Their plight deserves its own movie. Here they are overshadowed by the Cloetes’ extraordinary benevolence and the children’s painful intimate stories which humanize an incalculable crisis and will haunt audiences long after the film’s end." May Rigler; edited by Melinda Briana Epler Ms. Rigler and Johanna Demetrakas; music by Simphiwe Dana and Joseph Julian Gonzalez; produced by James Egan and Ms. Hogarth; released by Cinema Libre Studio. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 95 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14wood.html
Seann William Scott (John Farley) Susan Sarandon (Beverly) Amy Poehler (Maggie) Ethan Suplee (Nedderman) Melissa Sagemiller (Tracy) and Bill Macy (Mr. Woodcock’s dad)." and the film’s screenwriters Michael Carnes and Josh Gilbert and its director Craig Gillespie won’t have it. They instead endorse the idea that Woodcock’s abuse made John a better stronger person. It’s “The Great Santini” remade as a sitcom." you half-expect “Woodcock” to deliver more than formulaic laughs. When John meets Woodcock’s dad (Bill Macy) — a hateful coot who barks “Water sports is for girls and sodomites!” — the film threatens to show that Woodcock is not just an emblem of the jock bully mentality but also one of its damaged products." played with icy panache by Billy Bob Thornton is a smirking bully who turns gym class into boot camp flaunts his intimacy with John’s mom and talks in hard-boiled aphorisms. (“I’m already past my past. That’s why I call it my past.”) Horrified John tries to break up the affair leading to wacky misunderstandings and much hugging and learning." Tami Reiker; edited by Alan Baumgarten and Kevin Tent; music by Theodore Shapiro; production designer Alison Sadler; produced by Bob Cooper and David Dobkin; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 87 minutes." thematic material language and a mild drug reference." ” a self-help author named John Farley (Seann William Scott) returns to his Nebraska hometown and learns that his long-widowed mother Beverly (Susan Sarandon) is dating the title character a coach who made John’s life hell." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14soun.html
motivational-speaker type named Shank (John Baker) and his jumpy oily right-hand man (Robert Longstreet) GWS runs classified ads seeking musicians who want to make records. Auditions are held —  usually in shabby hotel rooms —  after which the starry-eyed strummers and chirpers are praised to the skies and hit up for cash. The money is supposed to cover some of the costs of recording a disc which the gung-ho  “producers” promise to market." but it also left me a bit queasy. Mr. Zobel not only depicted the devious game that Martin and Clarence run on their unsuspecting auditioners but also perpetrated it. Most of the gospel crooners and keyboard noodlers we see on screen —  some of whom sound pretty good by the way —  had answered talent-seeking ads. They thought they were trying for a record deal not appearing in a movie." and he effusively thanks them all in the end credits. But this does not undo the ugly fact that he deceived and humiliated them first any more than Martin’s guilty conscience lets him off the hook for what he has done." a curious new movie called “Great World of Sound” observes a sadder tawdrier side of the self-deluding dream of fame." but the desire to sell it can leave the aspiring stars vulnerable to an old scam known as song sharking in which they are conned into subsidizing their own worthless record deals. “Great World of Sound ” directed by Craig Zobel uses some documentary techniques to depict the sharkish activities of a fictional company of the same name." who are themselves at least to some degree victims of the scam. The main character Martin (Pat Healy) a shy skinny young fellow has just moved to Charlotte N.C. and set up housekeeping with his girlfriend (Rebecca Mader) who makes faux-folksy crafts to sell at fairs. At GWS Martin is partnered with Clarence (Kene Holliday) an extroverted middle-aged  African-American —  in other words Martin’s temperamental and demographic opposite." like the no-frills cinematography and the worn sets contribute to the downbeat authenticity that is the most striking feature of “Great World of Sound.” Mr. Zobel may be a scam artist but he’s also the real thing." Adam Stone; edited by Tim Streeto and Jane Rizzo; music by David Wingo; production designer Richard Wright; produced by Melissa Palmer David Gordon Green Mr. Wright and Mr. Zobel; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 104 minutes. This film is not rated." Kene Holliday (Clarence) John Baker (Shank) Robert Longstreet (Layton) and Rebecca Mader (Pam)." however. Even Martin’s trepidation about what they are doing —  and his desire to believe against all evidence that it’s a legitimate music-business gig —  helps to separate the marks from their money. Mr. Holliday and Mr. Healy are nimble performers and they help to lift “Great World of Sound” above its central gimmick turning it into a subtle funny and depressing observation of unspoken race and class tensions." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14silk.html
Hervé Joncour (Michael Pitt) is a military officer in 1860s France who encouraged by his father the mayor of a village is taken under the wing of Baldabiou (Alfred Molina) a greedy roguish merchant who invites him into the silk trade." sometimes inaudibly his character sounds either supremely detached  or heavily medicated. With his swollen chiseled lips and empty blue eyes that sometimes tear up Mr. Pitt is a reasonably photogenic specimen. But this actor whose typical screen character is a broken androgynous man-child is disastrously miscast." the film fits a pattern. His much stronger earlier movies “Thirty Two Short Films About Glenn Gould” and “The Red Violin ” also demonstrated his predilection for tricky stories with artistic (usually musical) themes. “Silk” is smothered under a score composed by Ryuichi Sakamoto that desperately wants to sound like Arvo Pärt especially in piano and violin passages that feature Joshua Bell who was prominent in “The Red Violin.” But this music which is supposed to transport you into the sublime feels more like silk wallpaper." and Japan being closed to the West has an uncontaminated supply. One of his challenges is to penetrate the border. As he makes the trip west to east mostly over land from Vienna to Kiev crossing the Russian steppes and eventually reaching Japan on a smuggler’s ship there is plenty of spectacle. But this choppily edited film barely conveys the distance he travels or the hardship he endures. Nor does Mr. Pitt’s face register his reaction to anything." though even an actor with twice his vitality would be hard put to infuse feeling into the maundering dialogue." which leaves him feeling obsessed and guilty. If the movie’s twist ending involving the translation of two letters from Japanese into French is worthy of Maupassant it is so long in arriving that the closest thing to a catharsis it offers is a sense of relief that something finally happened." Hélène a schoolteacher played by the ravishing Keira Knightley is barely present in the movie. We briefly see her pining for her husband’s return while he’s  away and complaining about their childless marriage when he’s home. Their infertility is not for lack of trying. Although the two are shown entwined in bed their nude love scenes (discreetly photographed) have zero chemistry." Keira Knightley (Hélène Joncour) Koji Yakusho (Hara Jubei) Alfred Molina (Baldabiou) Miki Nakatani (Madame Blanche) Mark Rendall (Ludovic) Sei Ashina (the Girl) Kenneth Welsh (Mayor Joncour) Jun Kunimura (Umon) Callum Keith Rennie (Trader) Carlo Cecchi (Priest) and Kanata Hongo (the Boy)." based on the novel by Alessandro Baricco; director of photography Alain Dostie; edited by Pia Di Ciaula; music by Ryuichi Sakamoto; production designer François Seguin; produced by Niv Fichman Nadine Luque Domenico Procacci and Sonoko Sakai; released by Picturehouse. Running time: 108 minutes." he is led blindfolded from Yamagata harbor to a village in the Japanese interior where he meets with Hara Jubei (Koji Yakusho) a local warlord to exchange gold for eggs. The transaction completed he returns by the same route and with his new wealth buys a house and property that he eventually turns into a field of lilies for Hélène." ” the film directed by François Girard confuses pretty scenery doused  in ponderous music with epic visual poetry. Impenetrable musings intended to evoke ineffable romantic longing leave you scratching your head as you wait ever more impatiently for something to happen." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14king.html
riding the manic phase of a bipolar cycle is virtually oblivious to anyone standing in his way. When a policewoman accosts him while he is digging on private property he flirts with her and slips her his phone number." James Whitaker; edited by Glenn Garland; music by David Robbins; production designer Dan Bishop; produced by Michael London Alexander Payne Avi Lerner and Randall Emmett; released by Millennium Films. Running time: 93 minutes." “King of California” runs pointedly against the grain. The exact opposite of Ms. Wood’s character in “Thirteen ” Miranda doesn’t run wild. She is the responsible one but on her own terms. The child is caretaker to the parent who may be mad but who is also a holy fool and holy fools are worth protecting." Miranda who has been working double shifts at a McDonald’s gets a job in the store as clerk researches its security system and even steals a master key. Gathering sophisticated surveyor’s tools and digging equipment Charlie organizes a late-night break-in with Miranda as his assistant and Pepper (Willis Burks II) a former member of his defunct jazz combo playing lookout." ” a serious comedy that does many things right as a sequel of sorts to “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest.” In Mike Cahill’s breezy loose-jointed independent film Michael Douglas who produced “Cuckoo’s Nest ” kicks over the traces to play a man not unlike Randle Patrick McMurphy in the earlier film." he undertakes the quest which eventually leads him to a Costco where he imagines he has pinpointed the cache buried six feet under the concrete floor. Still undeterred he determines to get it." for all the wretched parenting she has endured trusts her crazy father’s visionary purity. A poised resourceful girl who has bamboozled each of several child welfare agencies into thinking she is being supervised by one or the other she begins to believe her father’s fantasies may not be pie-in-the-sky." narrated by Charlie’s mildly exasperated but forgiving 16-year-old daughter Miranda (Evan Rachel Wood) champions the free spirit that blazes in his deranged mind with the same fervor with which  “Cuckoo’s Nest” applauded McMurphy’s maniacal fight against authority." giving his strongest screen performance since “Wonder Boys ” creates a portrait of a fanatic on a tear that is at once endearing and maddening and not overplayed. Charlie’s quest is only the latest in a series of offbeat schemes in which he hopes to prove to himself and his daughter that he can amount to something on his own eccentric terms. An amateur musician he plays the stand-up bass and in the movie’s most poignant vignette he tells his daughter of the time he pawned his instrument and lost hope until he was able to retrieve it." Evan Rachel Wood (Miranda) and Willis Burks II (Pepper)." Mr. Douglas’s character Charlie appears considerably loonier than McMurphy the charismatic possibly sociopathic rebel in a mental institution so fiercely embodied by Jack Nicholson. A wild-haired wild-eyed dreamer discharged from a county institution in Southern California after two years and now on a half-mad quest for buried treasure Charlie might be described as crazy-sane with the emphasis tilting toward crazy." but no matter. “King of California” may look and feel realistic but it is really a Don Quixote-like fable about nonconformity and pursuing your impossible dream to the very end." instead of being distilled into a single authoritarian enemy like Nurse Ratched are spread out. Everywhere Charlie goes in his search he is interrupted and questioned by the police and security guards. The Southern California environment itself where orange groves give way to strip malls is portrayed as spiritually suffocating." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14euro.html
based on a book by Lynn H. Nicholas crams in a lot which means it can seem rushed and cursory. And some parts beg for fuller treatment. The Monuments Men — G.I.’s (mainly) whose mission was to recover and return art — could easily be the subject of their own documentary. They’re heroes. And their work was vital to in the words of one Florentine woman “the victory of beauty over horror.”" ” a documentary about the Nazi pillaging of art and the Allied effort to return it can’t be conveniently consigned to the dustbin of history. This story is still playing out contentiously and emotionally as art is recovered and heirs sue for restitution. (The case of Klimt’s portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer familiar to many New Yorkers opens and closes the movie.)" produced and directed by Richard Berge Nicole Newnham and Bonni Cohen; based on the book by Lynn H. Nicholas; narrated by Joan Allen; director of photography Jon Shenk; edited by Josh Peterson; music by Marco D’Ambrosio; released by Menemsha Films. Running time: 117 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14elah.html
it is not so easily defeated. While there are killers liars and sadists to be found in this movie there are not really any villains. And there is no reassuring conclusion. If it is anguished even despairing “In the Valley of Elah” is also compassionate. At heart it is a somber ballad about young men who remain lost in a dangerous confusing place even after they come home." based on a story by Mark Boal and Mr. Haggis; director of photography Roger Deakins; edited by Jo Francis; music by Mark Isham; production designer Laurence Bennett; produced by Patrick Wachsberger Steven Samuels Darlene Caamano Loquet Mr. Haggis and Laurence Becsey; released by Warner Independent Pictures. Running time: 120 minutes." the memory of a desperate late-night phone call from the war zone and some smeary scrambled video recovered from Mike’s cellphone. These hectic unfocused clips stand in jarring pointed contrast to the neatly composed frames and carefully paced shots that make up most of Mr. Haggis’s film and they pose an agonizing challenge: How do you extract meaning from such chaos?" Mr. Haggis tries to coax an answer out of his story rather than imposing one on it from the start as he did in “Crash.” That film which owes its best-picture Oscar to the dedication of its cast and the obviousness of its themes turned racial intolerance into fodder for a self-righteous schematic allegory." from the ground level of its busy plot — “In the Valley of Elah” might be mistaken for a tidy crime procedural. A retired military police officer named Hank Deerfield (played by Tommy Lee Jones with his usual brisk gruff economy) learns that his son Mike (Jonathan Tucker) an Army specialist recently returned from Iraq has gone AWOL from his base in New Mexico." suggested by the actual murder of Specialist Richard Davis in 2003 is entirely beside the point. Rather the mechanics of the plot — the forensic discoveries the squabbles over jurisdiction between military and civilian authority the rounds of paperwork and the squad-room arguments — serve as the scaffolding for a more unsettling open-ended inquiry. Much as Hank wants to know what happened to Mike the night he died his real quest is to find out who his son was and what happened to him in Iraq." and whatever its flaws there is something inarguable something irreducibly honest and right about Mr. Jones’s performance. Hank exists on a continuum with the other lawmen he has recently played in particular the Texas sheriffs in “The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada ” which he directed and Joel and Ethan Coen’s “No Country for Old Men ” which will be released later this fall." a sorrowful frustrated sense that the deepest mysteries cannot be contained within any narrative framework. Underneath its deceptively quiet surface is a raw angry earnest attempt to grasp the moral consequences of the war in Iraq and to stare without blinking into the chasm that divides those who are fighting it from their families their fellow citizens and one another." Hank carries around an innate sense of right and wrong and Mr. Jones’s creased face at once kindly and severe is a manifest sign of his old-school temperament. Hank is the kind of man who shines his shoes every night says grace before each meal and makes his motel-room bed according to military standards." whose service covered at least some of the Vietnam years would entertain the illusion that all fighting men are Boy Scouts. But it is clear that Hank has both a general fondness for soldiers and a father’s assumption that he knows his own son. That may be part of why the grisly nature of Mike’s fate and the possibility that some of his buddies were responsible for it disturbs him so much. Something he suspects has gone terribly wrong with the institutions and the men he has always loved and trusted." but there are times when “In the Valley of Elah” feels almost like a horror film. Its steady crescendo of suspense builds toward the revelation — and vanquishing — of some unspeakable monstrous evil." ” suspicion veers one way and then another as new information comes to light. Was it drug dealers? Gang members? Soldiers from the young man’s own squad? Was Mike himself guilty of terrible things? Paul Haggis the writer and director obeys the rules of the whodunit genre by providing answers to some of the basic literal questions at the center of the film. And considered strictly as a crime drama “In the Valley of Elah” is a bit pedestrian with a few too many set pieces extraneous subplots and predictable turns." as Hank nags and pushes Emily in her investigation the movie registers the panic and dread that he fights to keep down. These feelings come through to some extent in the reactions of his wife Joan (Susan Sarandon) whom he tries to protect but more decisively and more hauntingly through the moods Mr. Haggis creates (with the crucial assistance of Roger Deakins the cinematographer responsible for the movie’s austere washed-out look and Mark Isham who wrote the eerie sparingly applied musical score)." the source of its title — it is mostly free of moral grandstanding. (A brief scene in which Hank gives voice to some of his half-buried ethnic bigotry is more credible than any of the similar moments that make up most of “Crash.”)" the young man’s charred and dismembered remains are found in the desert and Hank joins Emily Sanders a local detective played by Charlize Theron in trying to figure out who could have done such a terrible thing to his boy." Charlize Theron (Emily Sanders) Susan Sarandon (Joan Deerfield) James Franco (Sergeant Carnelli) Jonathan Tucker (Mike Deerfield) Frances Fisher (Evie) Jason Patric (Lieutenant Kirklander) and Josh Brolin (Chief Buchwald)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14dece.html
his acting is fine. It’s his career planning that needs some work." ” Daniel Radcliffe takes a holiday from Harry Potter to play another orphan this time of the Muggle variety. Too bad his destination is a coming-of-age tale so treacly it doesn’t just tug your heartstrings it attempts to glue them to your ribs." ciggies and Creedence Clearwater Revival from the local wild child (Teresa Palmer) his buddies vie to be adopted by a fairground worker and his seductive wife (Sullivan Stapleton and Victoria Hill). But when the inevitable tragedy strikes — in the form of death abandonment and a clay-footed hero — its emotional heft is diluted by a screenplay (by Marc Rosenberg working from Michael Noonan’s novel) mired in fantasy. As cartwheeling nuns frolic on the sand and visions of the Virgin Mary glow beneath the waves the movie congeals into a soggy symbolic mess." Lee Cormie (Misty) Christian Byers (Sparks) James Fraser (Spit) Victoria Hill (Teresa) Sullivan Stapleton (Fearless) Teresa Palmer (Lucy) and Jack Thompson (Bandy)." one of four boys who share a December birthday and the hospitality of a Catholic orphanage in the Australian outback Mr. Radcliffe may be audience bait but he’s not the film’s fulcrum. That would be Misty (Lee Cormie) a bespectacled dreamer who longs for parents and discovers potential candidates when the boys receive the unexpected gift of a seaside vacation." based on story work by Ronald Kinnoch and the novel by Michael Noonan; director of photography David Connell; edited by Dany Cooper; music by Carlo Giacco; production designer Leslie Binns; produced by Richard Becker; released by Warner Independent Pictures. Running time: 105 minutes." peep at naked women and enjoy a variety of under-age activities." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14brav.html
arguments that are resolved in a climax that manages to be at once preposterous sentimental and appalling. That it may also be viscerally satisfying is a sign of just how cowardly “The Brave One” really is. It’s a pro-lynching movie that even liberals can love." profanity and some nudity." the young prostitute who was the object of Travis Bickle’s white-knight fantasies. In this one Ms. Foster’s character Erica is like Travis a haunted survivor who supplies rueful voice-over narration.  But her spirit is in many ways closer to that of Charles Bronson’s workaday vigilante in the “Death Wish” movies. The public radio gig the references to Emily Dickinson and D. H. Lawrence the directing credit for Neil Jordan (of “Crying Game” fame) — all of this produces a patina of refinement and seriousness." with joggers and park-bench sitters in sight Erica and David are viciously beaten and robbed by three thugs who also steal the dog. As if to emphasize the swift brutal transition from before to after Mr. Jordan tastelessly juxtaposes images of Erica’s bloody clothes being stripped off in the emergency room with flashbacks of David slowly undressing her for lovemaking. After three weeks in a coma Erica awakens to find that David has died and that she is paralyzed by fear and grief." Bruce A. Taylor and Cynthia Mort based on a story by  the Taylors; director of photography Philippe Rousselot; edited by Tony Lawson; music by Dario Marianelli; production designer Kristi Zea; produced by Joel Silver and Susan Downey; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 122 minutes." Terrence Howard (Detective Sean Mercer) Naveen Andrews (David Kirmani) Nicky Katt (Detective Vitale) and Mary Steenburgen (Carol)." Erica looks back longingly at a vanished metropolis whose touchstones include Eloise at the Plaza and Sid Vicious at the Hotel Chelsea. She sighs about how that old Manhattan — Edgar Allan Poe and Andy Warhol are other names in her necrology — is “dying.”" who seems to be the only member of the New York Police Department  actually interested in doing his job. (His partner played by Nick Katt is the only person in the movie with a sense of humor)." ” though well cast and smoothly directed is just as crude and ugly as you want it to be." the father-and-son team Roderick  Taylor and  Bruce A. Taylor and Cynthia Mort clearly relish the conceit of transforming a slightly built overcivilized blonde  into a killing machine. After allowing us a glimpse of the carefree life Erica shares with her fiancé David (Naveen Andrews) — scenes that remind you just how little the portrayal of happiness has figured in Ms. Foster’s recent performances — they plunge her into a modern urban horror story." but little in the way of remorse. Ms. Foster handles her emotions efficiently having made pain offset by steeliness something of a specialty of late. In “Panic Room” and “Flight Plan” her mix of desperation and ferocity was that of a mother in extremis. Here looking smaller and more vulnerable but at the same time more ruthless she is driven by grief perhaps a less rational and more dangerous motivation." the movie insists is how in your heart of hearts you really do want it to be. Its none-too-subtle governing idea is that even the most effete brownstone-dwelling public radio listener (or New York Times reader) might feel the occasional urge to blow someone’s head off." even as he is investigating the shootings carried out by the mysterious presumably male vigilante." she replies “I need something now ” perhaps unwittingly echoing one of Homer Simpson’s greatest lines.) At first accidentally and then deliberately Erica becomes a vigilante shooting down a murderous husband who is also a convenience-store robber a pair of iPod thieves who are also potential rapists and a few other bad guys whose badness is similarly overdetermined." the gunslinging heroine of “The Brave One ” is the host of a public radio talk show called “Street Walk” that takes a sentimental nostalgic view of New York City. Also a rather purple one since Erica is prone to come up with poeticisms on the order of “New buildings sprout like chromosomes from the city’s DNA ” a sentence that  someone evidently thought so highly of that we get to hear it twice." “The Brave One ” though set in the present tries to conjure a more specific moment in the history of New York a time when its citizens on screen and off seemed to be in far greater danger of actually dying at one another’s hands. Around 30 years ago in the depths of its civic and fiscal crises the city served as a perfect setting for nasty dark-hearted crime dramas — tales of vengeance that ranged from “Death Wish ” on the brutal populist end of the spectrum to the more self-aware and nuanced “Taxi Driver.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/14/movies/14abby.html
adultery and group therapy." Harlan Bosmajian; edited by Phillip J. Bartell; music by Marcelo Zarvos; production designer Ray Kluga; produced by Brad Zions; released by Magnolia Pictures. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 101 minutes." trust and how to make love last. Not even Woody knows the answer to that one." Chris Messina (Ira) Judith Light (Arlene Black) Jason Alexander (Dr. Morris Saperstein) Frances Conroy (Lynne Willoughby) Robert Klein (Seymour Black) and Fred Willard (Michael Willoughby)." the Jewish-neurotic-paired-with-crazy-shiksa vacuum cries out to be filled. Enter “Ira & Abby ” a hard-working comedy of lust therapy and Manhattan angst that deserves an A for ambition if not achievement." “Ira & Abby” radiates a breathless charm due in no small part to Ms. Westfeldt’s sharp dialogue and engagingly unmannered performance. A woman whose empathy can disarm a subway robber Abby nudges the misanthropic Ira out of his navel and into a life; and if the movie’s spirit flags when the marital skies darken the problem lies less with Robert Cary’s brisk direction than the script’s tonal unease." he’s being dumped by his analyst of 12 years  for lack of progress. A doctoral candidate with an unfinished dissertation and the decision-making skills of an amoeba Ira is defenseless when a blithe gym-membership saleswoman named Abby (Jennifer Westfeldt who also wrote the screenplay) lays her cheek against his belly and begs him to marry her. Her commissions must be phenomenal." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/12/movies/12wool.html
as if the expressionless toys were human actors appearing in their own feature. In one sequence we look over the dolls’ shoulders as they (meaning their human handlers) discuss a full-size character visible beyond the edges of a dollhouse window which serves as a frame-within-a-frame." the movie about elderly junk-collecting sisters kicks off with an animated prologue that looks like a kindergartner’s drawing come to life. The narrator informs us that our heroines Ume and Kame have lived in this house all their lives and have accumulated so many discarded objects (including furniture clocks toys and old futons) that the house seems to have merged with their possessions." a riot of bold lines and writhing masses of color is one of the great fine-art props in recent movies. The film’s spectacularly jumbled sets evoke the films of Pierre Jeunet (“Amélie”) and Terry Gilliam (particularly Robin Williams’s cellar headquarters in “The Fisher King”)." which clear space for cartoon sequences jaggedly edited and obnoxiously scored montages and characters revealing their fears and longings via tiny dolls gripped in their hands." favoring quiet often glacially slow interactions that let us exist in the house alongside the characters." which they gleefully take home leaving a yarn trail in their wake that evokes Hansel and Gretel’s bread crumbs. That night a mysterious seemingly feral girl (Ayu Kitaura) — her nudity obscured by shadows and clever editing — follows the yarn trail and moves into the sisters’ house where she repeatedly knits herself a sacklike dress and then upon completing the job wails in despair rends the garment and starts again." and so uncomfortable that it’s hard to imagine its being vocalized without the intercession of toys which allow Ms. Tominaga’s childlike characters to say things they wouldn’t otherwise." with English subtitles) and directed by Mai Tominaga; director of photography Satoshi Seno; edited by Nagashima; music by Hiroyasu Yaguchi; produced by Masahiro Harada and Kazuhiko Yusa; released by Cinema Epoch. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 100 minutes. This film is not rated." Kazuko Yoshiyuki (Kame) Ayu Kitaura (Aonamishi) Tiara (Young Ume) Carolina Kaneda (Young Kame) and Eiko Koiki (Voice)." the fantasy film “Wool 100%” is a playful contraption illustrating the kinship between movies fairy tales and dreams." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/12/movies/12helv.html
Luke Geissbuhler; edited by Shelby Siegel; released by Swiss Dots/Veer. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 80 minutes. This film is not rated." you’re guaranteed to spend the next few days scanning the world for Helvetica like a child on a cross-country car trip playing I Spy." ” a feature-length documentary about that typeface promises too much information. Luckily the filmmaker Gary Hustwit — who was an executive producer of the mesmerizing “Moog ” about the analog synthesizer — has a knack for finding a universe within a narrow topic." Mr. Hustwit’s documentary posits Helvetica — a sans-serif typeface developed in 1957 at the Haas Foundry in Munchenstein Switzerland — as an emblem of the machine age a harbinger of globalization and an ally of modern art’s impulse toward innovation simplicity and abstraction. Its versatility is showcased in shots of storefronts street signs public transportation systems government forms advertisements and newspaper vending boxes." lively interviews with graphic designers and theorists — including Massimo Vignelli who created directional signs for the New York City subway system and David Carson author of “The End of Print” — assess Helvetica’s impact on human life and thought. Some praise it as a conceptual breakthrough; others blast it as a lowest-common-denominator typeface whose use both reflects and perpetuates conformity." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/12/movies/12fore.html
but the Nocturne played again and again becomes just another weepy heart-tugger here part of the tone of hushed reverence that seems exactly wrong. Instead of showing how art cheats death it sets it apart from life entombed to be visited every so often flower in hand." with English subtitles) by Ms. Honigmann and Ester Gould; director of photography Robert Alazraki; edited by Danniel Danniel; produced by Carmen Cobos; released by First Run/Icarus Films. Shown with Anita Thacher’s  seven-minute short film “Lost/In Memoriam” at the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 95 minutes. This film is not rated." the rare documentarian still to shoot in 35 millimeter fills her movie with pretty images but doesn’t show us anything we haven’t seen before. And she can be maddeningly literal: Why do we have to see a statue covering its eyes when a sad story is narrated?" beauty and the persistence of art are the vast topics addressed in “Forever ” Heddy Honigmann’s frustrating documentary set mainly in Père-Lachaise the cosmopolitan Paris necropolis where artists including Proust Chopin Ingres and what’s-his-rock-star from the Doors are buried." rich with specificity surprise and emotion. But the art worshipers whom the film sometimes follows beyond the cemetery can be blandly gaga or naïve: His work speaks to me or “I used to think paintings were alive.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07roma.html
” John Turturro’s passionate ode to the sensual pulse of life in a working-class neighborhood of Queens than in a dozen perky high school musicals. This is a movie in which a dirty mind is a good thing. Call it “The Singing Id.” Prudes be forewarned." recycled in the right context somehow sound fresh. After their first domestic battle in which Kitty threatens to emasculate Nick he barges into the street and moans Engelbert Humperdinck’s 1968 hit “A Man Without Love.” Immediately the ears of the sanitation workers and electricians in the neighborhood perk up; they drop what they’re doing and wielding the tools of their trade become a choreographed blue collar chorus lifting its collective voice in sympathetic brotherhood. Indeed “lonely is a man without love.”" Tula a trash-talking lingerie clerk whose hilariously explicit speed raps catapult her character into the hall of fame of cheap British tarts. Nick is so besotted with her pornographic imagination that he undergoes an excruciating circumcision in the belief that it will improve their already sizzling sex life. His decision to go through with the procedure follows some intense debate about its pros and cons with his best friend Angelo (Mr. Buscemi) as they labor on a bridge over the East River." looking hot enough to burst into flames enters the movie to the strains of the Buena Vista Social Club’s “Cuarto de Tula ” flanked by a chorus of leering firefighters equipped with hoses. Later she teases her way through Connie Francis’s “Scapricciatiello  (Do You Love Me Like You Kiss Me)”  and slithers underwater to Ute Lemper singing “Little Water Song.”" that audacity is still a commercial liability. After bouncing around for two years the film is being distributed by Mr. Turturro without studio backing." ” Mr. Turturro’s third film as a director might also be described as a song-and-dance “Sopranos ” minus the crime and punishment and without most of the profanity. Stylistically the overheated language of this kitchen-sink musical many of whose characters are Italian-American and Catholic belongs to the poetry of pulp." nonmusical appearance as Nick’s cranky man-hating mother. Even later when Nick tenderly growls Irving Berlin’s “Girl That I Marry” to a now mollified Kitty you are reminded that in this blue collar haven the old dualities still apply. Wives are saints and mistresses are whores and all men are guilty. And the world goes ’round." Constance (Ms. Parker) and Rosebud (Ms. Turturro). It’s odd to find Tony Soprano’s sister playing Nick Murder’s daughter in the movie since the two actors are only a year apart in age. But that’s the surreal license “Romance & Cigarettes” takes without a second thought." intense eroticism and sexually graphic language." Susan Sarandon (Kitty) Kate Winslet (Tula) Steve Buscemi (Angelo) Bobby Cannavale (Fryburg) Mandy Moore (Baby) Mary-Louise Parker (Constance) Aida Turturro (Rosebud) Christopher Walken (Cousin Bo) Eddie Izzard (Gene Vincent) Barbara Sukowa (Gracie) David Thornton (Urologist) and Elaine Stritch (Nick’s mother)." ” which used vintage pop tunes to voice the characters’ private fantasies in much the same way. Here the actors either lip-sync to recordings or sing along with them. Although the majority of songs date from the 1960s they aren’t the usual musical touchstones used in movies to evoke instant nostalgia." and the Moonglows’ “Ten Commandments of Love” a hushed hymn reverently intoned by a church choir." Tom Stern; edited by Ray Hubley; choreography by Tricia Brouk; production designer Donna Zakowska; produced by John Penotti and Mr. Turturro; released by Boroturro Inc. At  Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 115 minutes." Mr. Cannavale becomes Elvis Presley James Brown and John Travolta rolled into one slightly ludicrous package." Steve Buscemi Bobby Cannavale Mandy Moore Mary-Louise Parker Aida Turturro Christopher Walken and Elaine Stritch injects the film with continual shots of adrenaline. The cast is clearly having the time of its life venting the characters’ lurid potty-mouthed fantasies and the excitement is contagious." a New York ironworker raked over the coals by his wife Kitty (Susan Sarandon) after she catches him cheating is a breakup-and-makeup tale as rudimentary as a “Honeymooners” episode. In its final act the movie makes a sudden awkward lurch into pathos as Nick’s smoking habit catches up with him." who plays Kitty’s Elvis-obsessed cousin Bo whom she engages to track down Tula brings Tom Jones’s braying hit “Delilah” to a boil in a swiveling bump-and-grind production number." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07moon.html
spinning in space a blue and green paradise ringed with clouds. And there is the moon’s surface up close and forbidding with shadowy craters like pockmarks: a place of absolute desolation. Yes we did it." who    offers his memories in a tone devoid of grandiosity is the most articulate of the 10 astronauts from various Apollo missions interviewed in the film. While Buzz Aldrin Apollo 11’s lunar module  pilot and Neil Armstrong its overall commander walked on the moon Mr. Collins never set foot on it." President Kennedy’s goal suddenly seemed attainable. Apollo 8 and 10 took men close to   the moon’s surface and on July 20 1969 the dream was finally realized. A creepy footnote is an excerpt from a sad television speech prepared for  President  Nixon to deliver should the Apollo 11 mission fail." beginning with its cold war origins. It includes President John F. Kennedy’s famous 1961 speech to Congress declaring his goal of putting a man on the moon before the end of the decade and bringing him safely back to earth. It recalls how the Apollo program nearly ended in January 1967 when a flash fire erupted on Apollo 1 while it was on the launch pad during a simulated countdown killing three astronauts." he marvels he could make the Earth disappear." just as Mr. Armstrong and Mr. Aldrin were about to touch down?  But Mr. Armstrong calmly went about improvising a solution." Gene Cernan Charlie Duke Jim Lovell Edgar Mitchell Harrison Schmitt Dave Scott and John Young. These snippets appear almost randomly in no particular order and it is impossible to keep track of who’s who.  Cumulatively however they create a group portrait of explorers with “the right stuff”: men with a much higher resistance to fear than average." there were a thousand little worries. Through every phase Mr. Collins fretted about the details that had to mesh for the mission to be successful. But he never feared for his life. That in a nutshell is the right stuff." Clive North; edited by David Fairhead; music by Philip Sheppard; produced by Duncan Copp; released by ThinkFilm and Discovery Films. Running time: 100 minutes." while those of the notoriously private Mr. Armstrong who refused to participate in the film are secondhand. Mr. Collins and Mr. Aldrin both express awe at Mr. Armstrong’s coolness under pressure and his ability to come up with the perfect phrase — “that’s one small step for a man one giant leap for mankind”  —  when the occasion demanded. But Mr. Armstrong’s absence  leaves the movie with a hole. A grainy vintage television excerpt of his parents on the game show “I’ve Got a Secret” doesn’t begin to fill the gap." they may also make you shudder. When was the last time the wonders of technology received such wholehearted endorsement? If today’s world is even more strife-torn than the world of 1969 when the Vietnam War was raging one reason may be that the same technology that produced Apollo 11 has since come under a cloud." and the United States is increasingly viewed as an arrogant dangerous superpower. The concept of a cooperative multinational “we ” working together for world peace with America leading the way is almost as quaint as the cozy concept of “the global village.” The planet that looked so pretty to Mr. Collins from 240 000 miles away is more fragile than we realized." recalls Mike Collins the pilot of the mission’s command module he  heard the phrase “We did it” everywhere they went. The “we ” he remembers in David Sington’s documentary “In the Shadow of the Moon ” didn’t refer to Americans or to any nationality but to the human race. Millions around the world who had watched on television as men walked on the moon for the first time felt that  they had participated in a great adventure that ennobled the species." brief violent images and incidental smoking." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07bubb.html
the story follows  three   left-leaning 20-somethings  (two men and a woman) whose notion of political action is to hold a “rave against the occupation.” But when Noam (Ohad Knoller) a sweet-natured music-store clerk  and  reserve soldier meets a handsome Palestinian named Ashraf (Yousef Sweid) their escalating affair forces everyone to face reality in the cruelest possible way." ethnic and intellectual — into its 117 minutes “The Bubble” is about the appeal of self-delusion and the warmth of comfort zones. Noam’s best friend Yali (Alon Friedmann) a cafe manager reproaches Noam for habitually  choosing unavailable men yet denies his own attraction to casually aggressive partners." veering somewhat uneasily between these tones and relying on the competence of his actors to smooth the transitions. And though his ending is more poetic than just it effectively diverts partisan sympathies toward a more general condemnation of violence.  Mr. Fox may be a romantic but he understands that love is rarely all you need." “The Bubble” is photographed with a sunny brightness that belies the gravity of its intentions." with English subtitles) by Gal Uchovsky and Mr. Fox; director of photography Yaron Scharf; edited by Yosef Grunfeld and Yaniv Raiz; music by Ivri Lider; production designer Oren Dar; produced by Mr. Uchovsky Ronen Ben Tal and Amir Feingold; released by Strand Releasing. Running time: 117 minutes. This film is not rated." Ashraf’s fond sister (Roba Blal) and her future husband a Hamas leader aptly named Jihad (Shredy Jabarin) negate Ashraf’s homosexuality by coercing him into a straight relationship." Yousef Sweid (Ashraf) Daniela Wircer (Lulu) Alon Friedmann (Yali) Roba Blal (Rana) and Shredy Jabarin (Jihad)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07yuma.html
Christian Bale (Dan Evans) Peter Fonda (Byron McElroy) Gretchen Mol (Alice Evans) Ben Foster (Charlie Prince) Dallas Roberts (Grayson Butterfield) Alan Tudyk (Doc Potter) Vinessa Shaw (Emma Nelson) and Logan Lerman (William Evans)." Mr. Bale’s character is a former sharpshooter in the Union Army trying to survive bad weather and predatory capitalism in the post-Civil War Arizona territory. Mr. Bale is one of the few screen actors who can convincingly shed the trappings of modernity. Dan is much more than a movie star in costume: with his gaunt haggard face and wide awe-struck eyes he seems to have stepped out of a daguerreotype or a murder ballad." the prodigious robber played by Mr. Crowe is a more familiar creature:  a sociopath whose twinkly charm masks both his ruthlessness and his perverse integrity. Ben is better-humored than Dan and he certainly looks better fed. He sweet-talks Dan’s wife (Ms. Mol) and impresses Dan’s older son (Logan Lerman) who regards his father’s ineffectual uprightness with open contempt." directed by Delmer Daves is a lean and satisfying specimen a western more concerned with the psychology of its characters than with the mythology of the frontier. Mr. Mangold’s new version though it expands the story and cranks up the brutality does its best to honor the unpretentious spirit of the original." Michael Brandt and Derek Haas based on a short story by Elmore Leonard; director of photography Phedon Papamichael; edited by Michael McCusker; music by Marco Beltrami; production designer Andrew Menzies; produced by Cathy Konrad; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 117 minutes." “The Proposition ” comes from Australia — and it must be said that Mr. Crowe and Mr. Bale both do excellent work. They and a fine all-American supporting cast including Gretchen Mol Ben Foster Dallas Roberts and a surpassingly grizzled Peter Fonda are the main reasons to see “3:10 to Yuma ” a serviceable addition to the current western revival." who wears the black hat in “3:10 to Yuma ” is a native of New Zealand. Christian Bale the good guy was born in Wales. Lou Dobbs and other commentators who have lately been sounding the alarm about outsourcing immigration and the globalization of the labor market may want to take note. The hero and the villain in a cowboy movie: are we going to stand by and let foreigners steal these jobs? Are no Americans willing to do them?" righteous entourage whose job is to take Ben over the mountains and put him on the train that gives the movie its title. It’s not an easy commute. Ben’s gang led by his sadistic sidekick Charlie Prince (Mr. Foster) is lying in wait and there are plenty of other enemies as well from angry Apaches to rival railroad tycoons. The West here is a Hobbesian realm where any two men will have at least three reasons to kill each other." Michael Brandt and Derek Haas “3:10 to Yuma” remakes a 1957 film of the same title (based on the same Elmore Leonard story) which starred Glenn Ford as the charming baddie and Van Heflin as the rancher who risks everything to escort him to a rendezvous with justice." whose previous films include “Girl Interrupted” and “Walk the Line ” is not the kind of director who indulges in stylistic showboating. The action sequences in “3:10 to Yuma” are effective and coherent but it is ultimately the actors who carry the movie. The destination may be as familiar as the journey but there are still some sights worth seeing along the way." then and now as naïve celebrations of dubious ideals they were in many ways more sophisticated than their self-consciously critical (or “revisionist”) heirs. And the new “3:10 to Yuma ” even in its efforts to stick to the old ways (apart from some obligatory post-“Deadwood” cussing) is neither spare nor suggestive enough. It lacks the confidence to distinguish between touchstones and clichés." or at least some common enemies and Mr. Bale’s haunted reticence plays well against Mr. Crowe’s roguish relish. Their characters open up a bit too much toward the end in confessional moments that soften the clean hard contours of the story and bring to the surface themes that would have been more interesting if they had been left half-buried." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07solo.html
Mr.  Forte and its director Bob Odenkirk (formerly of HBO’s sketch comedy series “Mr. Show”) have fashioned a deranged sometimes desperate parody of an inspirational losers-make-good comedy. Three gags miss for every one that hits." stressing “artificial”; Janine’s menacing but devoted boyfriend (Chi McBride) weeping with rage upon meeting John and Dean; John’s lame dream of a hot-tub encounter with a blond fantasy object named Tara (Malin Akerman) a neighbor and sometime caretaker to their dad which climaxes with Tara bolting and John ecstatically kissing her wet footprint to the tune of “Almost Paradise.”" ” a crass goof in which two socially inept siblings John and Dean Solomon (Will Arnett and Will Forte) who were home-schooled in the Arctic by their now comatose dad (Lee Majors) try to fulfill his wish for a grandchild." the two  have  no choice but to opt for artificial insemination. The surrogate mother Janine (Kristen Wiig of “Saturday Night Live”) views the task as a job at first; but soon enough biological feelings  take over. When the delivery date looms and   she disappears the brothers embark on a panicked chase across Southern California." Will Forte (Dean Solomon) Chi McBride (James) Kristen Wiig (Janine) Malin Akerman (Tara) and Lee Majors (Ed)." Tim Suhrstedt; edited by Tracy Wadmore-Smith; music by John Swihart; production designer John Paino; produced by Tom Werner and Matt Berenson; released by Screen Gems. Running time: 91 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07sold.html
“The Nasty Girl ”  based on the true story of a young woman who challenged her hometown’s evasion of its wartime history. “The Unknown Soldier” is dense with detail and thick with painstaking interpretations and it may be hard going for viewers not already familiar with the German intellectual scene. The film is a succession of talking-head interviews and without some narration it is hard to understand the context of their arguments." he catches the familiar evasions of whitewashing and denial as individuals trying to wriggle off the hook of culpability end up making excuses for Hitler as well. The reckoning with the past which has occupied West German society since the 1960s has been painful and divisive which makes the calm empirical spirit of this film all the more impressive." and the controversy it provoked is the subject of Mr. Verhoeven’s film. Though his sympathies are clearly with the historians and curators who presented the German public with documentary and photographic evidence showing the extent of Wehrmacht participation in mass killings Mr. Verhoeven allows all sides of the debate to be heard. Except that is for the far-right nationalist protesters whose leaders impose a gag rule answering questions only with assertions that “the press lies.”" the SS and other specialized organizations conceived and carried out policies of extermination against civilians while the Wehrmacht rank and file went about the usual business of fighting the enemy. It was thus possible after the war to commemorate the service of fathers and grandfathers and even to treat them with a measure of sentimental reverence without condoning the atrocities of the Third Reich." with English subtitles; edited by Gabriele Kröber; music by Martin Grubinger Mike Herting and Art Percussion; released by First Run Features. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 97 minutes. This film is not rated." however is clear enough and the evidence of Wehrmacht atrocities is both chilling and fascinating. The thoroughness with which “The Unknown Soldier” expunges the last traces of innocence from the citizens of the Third Reich may inspire some sympathy for those who came after. In this country after all we are accustomed to looking back admiringly on the achievements of the Greatest Generation. Germans in contrast must grapple with the legacy of their worst." ” a new documentary by Michael Verhoeven takes on one of the comforting myths of postwar Germany: the idea that ordinary German soldiers were for the most part unaware of and uninvolved in the worst crimes of the Nazi regime." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07shoo.html
let’s sample a bit more wisdom from the mouth of the movie’s hero Smith a righteous gunman played with his usual charismatic glower by Clive Owen. The person who profits he advises apropos of unraveling a nefarious conspiracy involving a United States senator a firearms manufacturer a lot of diapers and Paul Giamatti is always the bad guy. Which leaves me off the hook since not only did I not profit from “Shoot ’Em Up ” but I also lost 93 minutes I will never see again." soulless heartless movies that mistake noise for bravura and tastelessness for wit. I’d never call myself the angriest man in the world but after sitting through “Shoot ’Em Up ” I felt some sympathy for poor Smith." you know carrots are supposed to improve your eyesight. That’s about the level of wit to which “Shoot ’Em Up” aspires. Smith described by Donna as “the angriest man in the world ” is full of large and small complaints usually prefaced by “You know what I hate?” Again with the questions! He hates aggressive drivers and so forces one off the road. He hates the corporal punishment of children and so gives a guilty mom a spanking. He even hates guns which is why he shoots down scores of bit players." a lactating prostitute. That is not a sentence I thought I’d ever write but I’m sure Ms. Bellucci feels the same way about some of her lines like “Does this give you any new ideas about who wants Oliver’s bone marrow?” Excellent question!" swearing and a lactating prostitute." as he did in the incalculably superior “Children of Men ” his utmost to protect a baby. Awwww. Sitting on a bench one evening minding his business Smith witnesses bad guys pursuing a pregnant woman. After a pause during which the person sitting next to me at the preview screening loudly beseeched Smith to help her he did just that dispatching a warehouse full of thugs and delivering a healthy infant." sadly took a bullet in the head but her baby — it’s a boy by the way — turned out to be pretty resilient. Wouldn’t you be if you had Monica Bellucci for a wet nurse?" Peter Pau; edited by Peter Amundson; music by Paul Haslinger; production designer Gary Frutkoff; produced by Susan Montford Don Murphy and Rick Benattar; released by New Line Cinema. Running time: 93 minutes." between barrages of gunfire in the course of “Shoot ’Em  Up.” I won’t answer the question here — I get enough angry e-mail thanks — but I’m happy to affirm my general devotion to the whole Bill of Rights in particular the First Amendment which protects Michael Davis’s right to make this movie New Line Cinema’s right to market it and best of all my right to tell you what a worthless piece of garbage it is. (I interrupt this burst of patriotism to note that “Shoot ’Em Up” was filmed in Toronto.)" by the way and his bone marrow is needed to further the cause of gun control. Or to thwart the cause of gun control. In New Line’s press notes Mr. Davis is quoted as saying that in conceiving “Shoot ’Em Up ” “the hard part was to figure out the mystery and rationale as to why the bad guys want the baby.”" though “made” (to say nothing of “movie”) is perhaps too generous a word for this slapdash assembly of hectic poorly shot action sequences lame catchphrases (tell me Mr. Owen didn’t say “What’s up Doc?”) sadistic gags and heavy-metal tunes. The body count is astronomical as Mr. Owen shoots ’em up while rappelling down a stairwell driving a BMW and feigning intercourse with Ms. Bellucci. (Not all at once by the way. Now that would be cool.) Also he drives a carrot through the back of one man’s head and uses another one to put out an eye." Paul Giamatti (Hertz) Monica Bellucci (Donna Quintano) Stephen McHattie (Hammerson) and Greg Bryk (Lone Man)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07roun-005.html
Milarepa (played by Jamyang Lodro) is still regarded as one of Tibet’s greatest spiritual leaders. But as with many esteemed figures there are long traces of blood leading to the pedestal. We witness his entry to the dark side impelled by his vindictive mother as he becomes versed in black magic — which much like Jedi training involves willing objects to levitate using intense concentration — and takes vicious revenge  before finally developing a conscience." Murderer Saint" Murderer Saint” is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested) for light violence involving a highly destructive conjured-up storm." ” a straight-as-an-arrow mythical-historical telling of a mystic’s early life. After his father’s untimely death Milarepa  (known in his youth as Thopaga) his mother and his sister are treated abominably by the father’s money-grubbing siblings. In the remote chance that it may slip our minds the mother reminds us by proclaiming again and again just how much they’ve suffered." a Tibetan Buddhist lama portrays the first two Milarepa incarnations of the film’s subtitle “Magician Murderer Saint.” The third will be further explored in a  sequel. “Milarepa” fails to infuse freshness into the timeworn lesson that violence doesn’t pay; perhaps its subject’s path to goodness will provide a more enlightening cinematic outlet." with English subtitles) by Mr. Chokling and Tenzing Choyang Gyari; director of photography Paul J. Warren; edited by Suzy Elmiger; music by Joel Diamond; art director Orgyen Tobgyal; produced by Raymond Steiner; released by Luminous Velocity Releasing. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 90 minutes." Orgyen Tobgyal (Yungton Trogyel) Kelsang Chukie Tethtong (Kargyen) Jamyang Nyima (Dharma Wangchuk) Tashi Lhamo (Peta) and Gonpo (Uncle Gyaltsen)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07hunt.html
natch finally does bow to the righteousness of the renegade) the only good movie journalist is one who tells off the guys wearing ties cosseted safely back in the newsroom." Terrence Howard (Duck) Jesse Eisenberg (Benjamin) James Brolin (Franklin Harris) Ljubomir Kerekes (the Fox) Kristina Krepela (Magda) Diane Kruger (Mirjana) Joy Bryant (Duck’s Girlfriend) and Dylan Baker (Chet)." “What I Did on My Summer Vacation” by Scott Anderson; director of photography David Tattersall; production designer Jan Roelfs; produced by Mark Johnson and Scott Kroopf; released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and the Weinstein Company. Running time: 103 minutes." ” a misfired misguided would-be satire set in postwar Bosnia Richard Gere plays one of those Fourth Estate burnouts who periodically lurch into the movies. There’s the regulation flask a week’s worth of whiskers and the pouched eyes that have seen a world of sorrows and even more closing times. Marinating in booze and his own sour juices he is meant to look worn out and nearly used up punch-drunk on man’s inhumanity to man (and to woman and child and dog). He probably had a Humphrey Bogart poster on his dorm-room wall and a Hunter S. Thompson paperback in his back pocket." glib and knowing and weighing in at a little over 6 300 words a fast read. There’s no sign of anyone who remotely sounds or behaves like Simon Hunt no doubt because a working journalist who gets the job done like Mr. Junger isn’t as sexy sounding as a wreck of a reporter who has been ennobled both by personal tragedy (cue the gauzy flashback) and by his contempt for mainstream journalism." which explains why he sweet-talks his former cameraman Duck (the great Terrence Howard wasted) into a Balkan misadventure. Together with a network executive’s son (Jesse Eisenberg a graduate of the Woody Allen institute of hand wringing) the three go looking for a Serbian villain (Ljubomir Kerekes) a sneering smoothie with the carefully coiffed hair of a French intellectual." freezes the action and unleashes a veritable carnival sideshow — potato ladies a mustachioed functionary oily thugs even a midget towing a giant — which adds noise certainly. The tone lurches from maudlin to arch to frantic. Every so often a corpse pops up on screen as a reminder of just how unfunny this whole thing is." the appealing Mr. Gere looks like a manicured star whose expensive flesh is regularly anointed in oil and receives plenty of B12 and exercise. He doesn’t look as if he keeps company with misery though that’s precisely what his character Simon Hunt does. A onetime star television reporter who suffered an on-camera meltdown while reporting from Bosnia in the mid-1990s Simon now roams the globe’s really big horror shows and tries to sell the bad news freelance. He’s a stumblebum in the big geopolitical ring though mostly he’s just a reassuring cliché the good guy gone only superficially south." and owes its gonzo setup to a 2000 Esquire article by Scott Anderson. In brief Mr. Anderson and four other journalist pals all of whom had covered the Bosnian war popped into Sarajevo for a reunion on their way to some R & R on the Adriatic coast. One improbability led to another and before long the five (including Sebastian Junger) were mistaken for a C.I.A. hit squad on the hunt for the fugitive Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic. Toward the end of their escapade an American military officer turned to them and declared that it “would make a helluva movie ” which apparently set light bulbs to glowing above some producer’s head." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07hatc.html
a boatload of the usual mismatched tourists — including a pretend pornographer and his aspiring starlets — is gradually and creatively dismembered. Their assailant is one Victor Crowley (Kane Hodder) a typically sad monster whose misshapen appearance and facility with power tools  suggest a genetic collision between the Elephant Man and the home design guru Ty Pennington. As played by Mr. Hodder — an actor with Jason Voorhees under his belt and the useful ability to vomit on command — Victor easily steals the show." Tamara Feldman (Marybeth) Deon Richmond (Marcus) Kane Hodder (Victor Crowley) Mercedes McNab (Misty) Parry Shen (Shawn) and  Rev. Zombie (Tony Todd)." ” “Hatchet ” a Bayou-based homage to the slasher giants of yesteryear is more concerned with touchstones than with terror. The movie may proudly  assemble its bodily fluids the old-fashioned way — that is with  care and K-Y jelly — but absent any tension it’s all just so much splatter." disemboweled and  beheaded by a psycho as well as repeatedly terrorized by half-naked women." “Hatchet”  refers to everything from “Dawson’s Creek” to the “Candyman” films (whose star the wonderful Tony Todd has a lively cameo) while raising more giggles than goosebumps. Horror without suspense is like sex without love: you can appreciate the technicalities but ultimately there’s no reason to care." Will Barratt; edited by Christopher Roth; music by Andy Garfield; production designer Bryan A. McBrien; produced by Sarah Elbert Cory Neal and Scott Altomare; released by Anchor Bay Entertainment. In Manhattan at the AMC Empire 25 234 West 42nd Street. Running time: 93 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07fros.html
Irène Jacob (Claire Martin) Michael Imperioli (Jim Fortunato) and Sophie Auster (Anna James)." the  novelist  Martin Frost (David Thewlis) holes up in a cabin intending to  begin a new work and becomes embroiled in an affair with a woman named Claire Martin (Irène Jacob). She appears one morning in Martin’s bed claiming to be the niece of one of the cabin’s owners. She might be a con artist or she might be Martin’s muse." with plummy third-person narration (read by Mr. Auster) that over-interrogates every development and close-ups of significant objects (like a manual typewriter floating in black space) that aim for talismanic power but don’t get there. The result plays like a half-baked tribute to “Wings of Desire.”" Christophe Beaucarne; edited by Tim Squyres; music by Laurent Petitgand; production designer Zé Branco; produced by Paulo Branco Mr. Auster Yael Melamede and Gerardo Herrero; released by New Yorker Films. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 93 minutes. This film is not rated." who offers his mentally damaged young ward  (played by Mr. Auster’s own daughter Sophie) as a servant and possible concubine — pushes the movie from bland pretension into distastefulness." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/07/movies/07fier.html
”  he might have been thinking of someone like Ogden C. Osborne (Donald Sutherland) the reclusive moody billionaire who casts a long shadow in Griffin Dunne’s film “Fierce People.” With his blue-eyed wide-as-the-sky stare white beard and patriarchal rumble Mr. Sutherland is the embodiment of a proud old aristocrat slowly going to ruin who knows too much about the dark side of human nature for his own comfort. He knows for instance that many if not most fortunes begin with crimes." Finn had planned to spend the summer with his father “the Elvis of anthropologists ” studying the Ishkanani a primitive people in the Amazon rain forest known for their cruelty and barbarism. The intriguing conceit of “Fierce People” is that the idle superrich and the Ishkanani whose rituals are shown on reels of film sent from South America by Finn’s father are equally vicious." based on his book; director of photography William Rexer; edited by Allyson C. Johnson; production designer Mark Ricker; produced by Nick Wechsler and Mr. Dunne; released by Autonomous Films. Running time: 107 minutes." Anton Yelchin (Finn Earl) Donald Sutherland (Ogden C. Osborne) Kristen Stewart (Maya) Elizabeth Perkins (Mrs. Langley) Paz de la Huerta (Jilly) and Chris Evans (Bryce)." your instinct is throw up your hands and shout “Enough already; we get it!”" drug use nudity and sexual situations." as always is wonderfully complicated to observe. Liz is beautiful and tense but unstable. As she tries to clean up her act her insecurity registers in subtle twitches of the mouth and glances of stifled anxiety. Mr. Yelchin’s Finn however is problematic. The actor infuses Finn with the same Quiz Kid  know-it-all attitude he brought to Byrd Huffstodt the precocious son of a psychiatrist he played in another Showtime series “Huff.” A little of his whiny voice musing out loud in a too-deliberate tone goes a long way." “Yes they have more money.” Great wealth confers power and power changes people. Ogden presides like Louis XIV over his sprawling private kingdom of woods and fields in Vlyvalle N.J. His wealth not only entitles him to do pretty much as he pleases but also exerts an irresistible force on everyone living within his radius. In “Fierce People” that force is like an invisible toxic gas with a seductively sweet scent that immobilizes people and poisons their souls." a brutal assault that wrenches the movie in a different direction is so mishandled that its full horror never registers. The subplot of Liz and Ogden’s relationship which everyone (including Finn) assumes to be sexual is underdeveloped and a sub-subplot involving Liz’s romance with a handsome doctor she meets in Alcoholics Anonymous should have been discarded." adapted by Dirk Wittenborn from his novel follows a working-class mother and her teenage son from New York into Ogden’s magic kingdom for a season of disenchantment in the summer of 1980. Liz Earl (Diane Lane) a physical therapist who once treated Ogden has a drug and alcohol problem. She and her son Finn (Anton Yelchin) are sheltered in a guest house on his estate after Finn is arrested when he buys cocaine for her. With one phone call to Ogden who adores her Liz makes their troubles disappear and they are whisked away in a limousine driven by a policeman." Mrs. Langley (Elizabeth Perkins whose character is even more rancid than the detestable Celia Hodes her character on the Showtime series “Weeds”) and two seemingly golden grandchildren Bryce (Chris Evans) and Maya (Kristen Stewart). Viewed through Finn’s eyes the pretty heir and heiress (with whom Finn has an affair) metamorphose from a storybook prince and princess whom Finn observes with awed fascination into monsters whose sense of entitlement permits them to break any rules they please." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/05/movies/05musi.html
and watch him scratch out phrases on paper then test them on saxophone and piano. We see him perform for various audiences; hear him explain his optimistic but uncompromising theory that atonal music suits the tone of modern life; and listen in as he figures out how he’s going to maintain his artistic integrity while making the rent." Mr. Kraus; music by Ken Vandermark; produced by Jason Davis and Mr. Kraus; released by Sheriffmovie. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 60 minutes. This film is not rated." shot and edited with the same inquisitive spirit that defined Studs Terkel’s oral history “Working.”" the avant-garde jazz musician Ken Vandermark in the manner of a 1960s fly-on-the-wall documentary like “Salesman.”" effusively thanking a patron for a gig and then sheepishly informing a creditor that he won’t be able to settle up until next month. Those seeking a nutshell definition of what it means to be a committed artist need look no further." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/05/movies/05chee.html
Peter Biagi; edited by Steven Rasch; music by Rob Kolson; production designer Margaret M. Miles; produced by Mr. Garlin Erin O’Malley and Steve Pink; released by IFC First Take and the Weinstein Company. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 80 minutes. This film is not rated." “Curb Your Enthusiasm ” without the bile. That’s the tone of “I Want Someone to Eat Cheese With ” the rambling debut feature by Jeff Garlin a “Curb” regular and one of its executive producers." “Cheese” is the movie version of a dear friend you could spend all day with." brilliantly played by Wallace Langham) and a hilarious encounter with another fellow actor (the reliably excellent Joey Slotnick) who is handing out free hot dog samples while wearing a pirate outfit with a huge papier-mâché head." Sarah Silverman (Beth) Bonnie Hunt (Stella Lewis) Amy Sedaris (Ms. Clark) David Pasquesi (Luca) Gina Gershon (Mrs. Piletti) Mina Kolb (Mrs. Aaron) Wallace Langham (Claude Cochet) Joey Slotnick (Larry) and Richard Kind (Herb Hope)." directed and stars in this feature playing James Aaron a veteran of the Second City improv troupe in Chicago who still lives with his mother (Mina Kolb). He fidgets through Overeaters Anonymous meetings turns down auditions arranged by his impatient agent (Richard Kind) obsesses over landing the lead in a remake of his favorite movie “Marty ” and gads about town with his best friend and partner in sarcasm Luca (David Pasquesi)." jazz-loving teacher (Bonnie Hunt) and falls hard for a shockingly funny ice cream parlor employee (Sarah Silverman)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/05/movies/05salv.html
he explains is almost all that remains of Allende. In the scenes that follow the documentarian restlessly circles back to Allende envisioning him as a structuring absence that hovers over the country like a ghost shaping even its troubling silence about the past. For Mr. Guzmán the present which he shoots in serviceable color with some nice detail holds little evident appeal. What gives the movie a pulse enlivening both it and his actual voice are the black-and-white archival images of cheering workers and youth on the march visuals that melt into a blur of placards fists and smiles placards fists and smiles." the movie only skims the surface of American involvement which included covert actions withheld bank loans weapons training and so on. Four years after the coup Richard M. Nixon told David Frost that if he hadn’t stopped Allende Chile and Cuba would form a “red sandwich” in Latin America and “eventually it will be all red.”" Augusto Pinochet including “support for news media committed to creating a positive image for the military Junta.” The movie touches on though scarcely explores what came after the coup including Pinochet’s 17-year dictatorship which cost more than 3 000 Chileans their lives. As Nixon prophesized Chile did turn red." whose other documentaries include “The Battle of Chile” and “The Pinochet Case ” is an appealing presence even when hovering at the margins of the frame or floating through the proceedings as a disembodied voice. His unapologetic subjectivity is one of the strengths of “Salvador Allende” — the archival footage is its greatest attraction — largely because he weighs in as such a sympathetic soul raw and wounded even now." and partly because it does not dive deep into sociopolitical specifics the movie often comes across as less of a portrait of Salvador Allende fallen leader and more of a portrait of Patricio Guzmán distraught idealist. His stake in this material — which is after all his material — is what principally separates the movie from the usual documentary dross." French and Spanish with English subtitles) and directed by Patricio Guzmán; directors of photography Julia Munoz and Mr. Guzmán; edited by Claudio Martinez; music by Jorge Arriagada; produced by Jacques Bidou; released by First Run/Icarus Films. At the Anthology Film Archives 32 Second Avenue at Second Street East Village. Running time: 100 minutes. This film is not rated." if only because the spectacle of idealism has its pleasures as Mr. Guzmán’s own wistfulness suggests. But there’s also something enervating about his fugue-like repetition of nostalgia and regret which ends up blunting the urgency of the narrative. Everyone seems so alive in the past while so many in the present seem barely breathing including the various talking heads who speak to Allende the man the tactician and the epicure. (The octogenarian daughter of his nanny testifies to his love of empanadas.) For the most part these voices are vague on particulars an exception being Edward Korry the former United States ambassador to Chile who once warned that supporting a coup against Allende would be as disastrous for American interests as the Bay of Pigs." “Salvador Allende” is the Chilean filmmaker Patricio Guzmán’s plaintive look back at the rise and violent fall of the world’s first democratically elected Marxist president. Mr. Guzmán who went into exile after the Sept. 11 1973 coup that led to Allende’s death has returned to the country of his birth with a camera in hand and a storehouse of passionate memories. Alas little of that passion informs the filmmaking in this documentary dirge a memento mori about “the other Sept. 11” that’s drenched in revolutionary tears but lacking much in the way of historical and political insight." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/01/movies/01hall.html
but not enough." because the case study part of the film re-establishes Mr. Zombie’s status as modern American horror’s most eccentric and surprising filmmaker." ” and climaxes with a killing spree that alludes to suppressed Oedipal and incestuous desires." the spook tale and the case study are incompatible storytelling modes. Mr. Zombie’s movie which he wrote and directed wants us to care about Myers — who busts out of a mental institution 17 years after murdering most of his family and goes home to reconnect with the baby sister he spared — even while it depicts him as a mute literally faceless grim reaper. The two impulses cancel each other out." “House of 1 000 Corpses” and “The Devil’s Rejects ” this “Halloween” is unusually at ease among white working-class characters who drawl curse and like their fun loud. Between the movie’s classic rock soundtrack the screenplay’s lively characterizations and Phil Parmet’s chaotic camerawork Mr. Zombie often seems less an heir to Mr. Carpenter and other 1970s horror filmmakers than a sociologist who happens to make horror movies: the John Cassavetes of splatter." Deborah (Sheri Moon Zombie the director’s wife) who has a newborn daughter and a job as an exotic dancer; a sexually active older sister (Hanna Hall); and a loutish stepfather (overacted by William Forsythe) who taunts the boy." once Michael is locked away in a mental institution under the care of Dr. Samuel Loomis (Malcolm McDowell) the movie starts to spin its wheels. When Mr. Zombie reintroduces Michael as a long-haired giant (Tyler Mane) pining for a reunion with his now-teenage sister a spunky baby sitter named Laurie (Scout Taylor-Compton) the film’s energy and originality dissipate." based on the film by John Carpenter; director of photography Phil Parmet; edited by Glenn Garland; music by Tyler Bates; production designer Anthony Tremblay; produced by Mr. Zombie Malek Akkad Andy Gould and Andy La Marca; released by Dimension Films and Metro Goldwyn Mayer. Running time: 97 minutes." door-smashing progress through his old neighborhood are competently handled but tedious. Mr. Parmet’s lighting and compositions link the adult Michael to Boris Karloff’s Frankenstein’s monster but the film’s obligation to serve up the expected body count prevents Mr. Zombie from laying the groundwork for the explosion of tragic feeling that the movie’s finale deserves." devoting its first act to the childhood of the future serial killer Michael Myers a chubby sweet-faced socially awkward boy whose mental illness is transformed into murderous rage by school bullies and a home life of Dickensian squalor." warning signs that his family ignores at their peril." strong language nudity and sexual situations." Sheri Moon Zombie (Deborah Myers) Malcolm McDowell (Dr. Samuel Loomis) William Forsythe (Ronnie White) Hanna Hall (Judith Myers) Daeg Faerch (the young Michael Myers) and Scout Taylor-Compton (Laurie Strode)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/31/movies/31exil.html
with English subtitles) by Szeto Kam Yuen and Yip Tin Shing; director of photography Cheng Siu Keung; edited by David Richardson; music by Guy Zerafa; art director Tony Yu; released by Magnolia Pictures.  Running time: 113 minutes." and when the shooting starts they tend to stay in their car. Mr. To’s slyest western sight gag is a close-up of the baby’s anklet which jingles like a spur." riddling the apartment and flipping a door end over end like a playing card the men —  who all grew up together —  agree to put their guns down for a while and repair the damage. Thus does “Hard-Boiled” become “This Old House ” with loving close-ups of wood being sawed with a combat knife and a throwaway image of an assassin in  Jin’s kitchen making supper in a pan." who wants to start a new life with his wife Jin (Josie Ho) and their baby. The plot is thwarted by another couple of gunmen Tai (Francis Ng) and Cat (Roy Cheung)." “Exiled.” This tale of childhood buddies turned hit men squaring off against a malevolent gang boss in 1998 Macau — on the eve of that former Portuguese colony’s absorption by China — is the kind of film where flames roar waves crash and dropped bullets thud like bowling balls." thanks to its hard yet subtle characterizations and Mr. To’s refusal to condescend." tightly plotted “Election” and “Triad Election” may be puzzled by the goofy humor and shambling narrative of “Exiled ” a throwback to his earlier movies. But it’s all of a piece particularly the screenplay which puts the killers’ meanderings in historic and philosophical context." who were sent to avenge a botched assassination attempt on a gang boss named Fay (Simon Yam) postpone their mission to the point where Fay rightly presumes that they’ve allied themselves with their target." at one point accepting a brothel owner’s request to assassinate a rival. As the heroes bond over nostalgic memories and unleash enough firepower to level the Great Wall of China Mr. To depicts Macau as the Asian version of one of Sergio Leone’s mythically huge lawless eerily depopulated western towns." but he loves people." and it emphasizes the sheer what-the-hell randomness of their existence. Several key decisions — including the question of whether to rob a government gold shipment — are decided by a coin flip. Cheng Siu Keung’s  widescreen photography — which draws equally on Technicolor westerns and film noir — literalizes the notion of the sun setting on an old way of life by favoring gold brown and red." the scene resonates with anger and sadness. When the heroes get shot they gush crimson rivers. But because the film takes such joy in their existence the sight isn’t nauseating it’s exhilarating. We’re seeing their life force spill out and there’s so much more than we imagined." however “Exiled” is a tonic — a film that delivers all the visceral satisfactions of a super-macho action picture (close-quarters gun battles; slow-motion “Wild Bunch”-style side-by-side struts) and unabashedly sentimental depictions of loyalty and tenderness as well as plot twists that are surprising often bizarre yet feel just right." Guy Zerafa’s decadently lush score tries to out-emote Ennio Morricone. Some of the stare-downs go on so long that I half expected the director to start cutting to Bugs Bunny reading his way through all 12 volumes of “Remembrance of Things Past.”" Francis Ng (Tai) Nick Cheung (Wo) Josie Ho (Jin) Roy Cheung (Cat) Lam Suet (Fat) Richie Jen (Sergeant Chen) Simon Yam (Boss Fay) and Lam Ka Tung (Boss Keung)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/31/movies/31nine.html
“Reality Television ” Mr. Reynolds plays Gavin the house’s owner whose latest project “Knowing ” is a supernatural drama created for his best friend Ms. McCarthy (who plays herself).  He originally pitched it as “Rosemary’s Toddler.” A network is supposedly high on the show whose development is being filmed by Gavin as a “Project Greenlight”-like reality series under the supervision of Susan (Ms. Davis) his closest ally at the network." set in overlapping universes in which the female characters especially those played by Ms. McCarthy know all the answers which they are not allowed to reveal." “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ” “Big Fish ” “Corpse Bride” and two “Charlie’s Angels” movies. In the production notes for “The Nines” he writes that the middle chapter in which a television producer has the rug pulled out from under him is largely autobiographical." Hope Davis (Sarah/Susan/Sierra) Melissa McCarthy (Margaret/Melissa/Mary) and Elle Fanning (Noelle)." Los Angeles and Austin Tex." the television producer and the star are all played by Ryan Reynolds a blond handsome B-list actor who in this movie shows glimmerings of A-list talent. If Mr. August’s screenplay demonstrates some of the imagination of a Charlie Kaufman script (“Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind ” for instance) “The Nines” isn’t a neatly packaged mind game like Mr. Kaufman’s cleverest films. Instead it playfully tosses out ideas then leaves it to the viewer to read the pieces like tea leaves." ” a philosophical mind teaser with satirical fangs that marks the directing debut of the screenwriter John August the stressed-out psyches of jockeying Hollywood muckety-mucks are disturbed by strange metaphysical intimations. Think of it as a kind of “Twilight Zone 2007” in which the paranoia endemic to an industry that runs on illusion hype and extravagant grandiosity comes home to roost." “The Prisoner ” Mr. Reynolds’s character Gary is a distraught television star who in a fit of rage tosses his ex-girlfriend’s clothes on the backyard barbecue sets them on fire and goes on a bender of crack cocaine and booze that ends in a car crash. He winds up living under house arrest tended by his unflappably cheerful publicist and devoted fixer Margaret (Melissa McCarthy) who installs him in the empty house of a producer." some drug content and sexuality." and the distinctions between heaven and earth begin to blur. As that wise old sage Leonard Cohen muses in his world-is-going-to-hell-in-a-hand-basket song of pseudoprophecy “Everybody Knows”: “Everybody knows that you live forever when you’ve done a line or two.”" isn’t it tempting to imagine being God? A video-game designer or a reality-television director as omnipotent creator and manipulator of a discrete little world may fancy himself possessor of the keys to the kingdom." Gary begins a flirtation with Sarah (Hope Davis) his enigmatic sexually aggressive next-door neighbor and has hallucinations in which the number nine appears almost everywhere he looks. What does it mean? Margaret who knows more than she is letting on drops some provocative clues." “The Prisoner ” “Reality Television” and “Knowing ” written and directed by John August; director of photography Nancy Schreiber; edited by Douglas Crise; music by Alex Wurman; produced by Dan Jinks Bruce Cohen and Dan Etheridge; released by Newmarket Films. In Manhattan at the Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema 139-143 East Houston Street East Village. Running time: 99 minutes." “Knowing ” Mr. Reynolds is Gabriel a video-game designer hiking in the Hollywood Hills with his wife Mary (Ms. McCarthy) and their mute young daughter (Elle Fanning). Returning to their car they find its battery dead and their cellphone reception blocked. Leaving his wife and daughter in the car Gabriel goes to seek help and on the road meets Sierra (Ms. Davis) a hiker who at first shuns him then reappears offering assistance that soon turns sinister. This third story could be an episode of Gavin’s series “Knowing ” as it might have been directed before Ms. McCarthy’s firing." ugly and painful confrontation it feels as though it might have taken place." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/30/movies/31ten.html
self-deprecating and an infectious giggler he is an unorthodox spiritual exemplar with an insatiable scientific curiosity. (“When science contradicts faith he’s prone to choose science ” Mr. Ray marvels.) This 14th incarnation of the Dalai Lama would rather be reading about neuroscience than enduring a festival in his honor." his interviewee doesn’t hold back whether discussing his environmentalism or the outmoded Indian caste system. He even ventures onto the thin ice of birth control." ” a tedious title for an anything-but-tedious film. Expertly merging the mystical and the mundane Mr. Ray presents a warm and well-rounded portrait of his subject his Buddhist philosophies and the painful circumstances of his exile to a modest monastery in Dharamsala India." an interview with the Dalai Lama was supposed to be part of his compensation. When he discovered that he would have to arrange it himself he did by e-mail." directed narrated and edited by Rick Ray; director of photography Mr. Ray; music by Peter Kater; produced by Mr. Ray and Sharon Ray; released by Monterey Media Inc. At the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 85 minutes. This film is not rated." the movie is more charmed by the Dalai Lama’s personality than by his politics." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/30/movies/31vana.html
Vanaja grows from 14 to 16. Mamatha Bhukya who plays the role looks barely a day over 12 but compensates for it with an inner maturity that manages to shines through." with English subtitles) and directed by Rajnesh Domalpalli; director of photography Milton Kam; edited by Robert Q. Lovett and Mr. Domalpalli; music by Indira Amperiani and Bhaskara S. Narayanan; dance director Srinivas Devarakonda; production designers Nagulu Busigampala Babu Rao Murugula Krishna Bolagani Brahmam Atigadda Sati Devi Tacchota and Krishna Garlapati; produced by Latha Rajendra Kumar Domalpalli; released by Emerging Pictures. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 111 minutes. This film is not rated." the film features strong performances from a mostly nonprofessional cast a pleasantly muted look reminiscent of cinema made decades ago and some lovely dance sequences which contrary to the style of many Indian films are built firmly into the narrative." whose hard-drinking father couldn’t properly care for her. She found employment with her village’s wealthy landlady Rama Devi who took her under her wing and taught her Kuchipudi dance." if slightly overlong and absolutely timeless unfolding against an antiquated class system that sadly stands firm in rural areas of India to this day." named for its young heroine which plays like a rags-to-riches fairy tale at least until Rama Devi’s spoiled-rotten only son Shekhar (Karan Singh) enters the picture. A beefcake aspiring politician with sadistic tendencies he quickly jeopardizes Vanaja’s chances for a happy ending." Urmila Dammannagari (Rama Devi) Ramachandriah Marikanti (Somayya) Krishnamma Gundimalla (Radhamma) Bhavani Renukunta (Lacchi) and Karan Singh (Shekhar)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/30/movies/31sent.html
Garrett Hedlund (Billy Darley) Kelly Preston (Helen Hume) Aisha Tyler (Detective Wallis) and John Goodman (Bones Darley)." and Mr. Bacon’s hauntingly pale dark-eyed visage Mr. Wan’s film is a tedious pandering time-waster. It keeps telling us that an eye-for-an-eye philosophy makes the world blind but its heart is attuned to a quote from Bones: “Go with God and a bag full of guns.”" leavened with phony references to class difference. Nick goes from pencil pusher to vigilante superhero in record time racking up killings and personal tragedies en route to a climactic shootout that imitates elements of the “Taxi Driver” finale right down to the shaved head blown-off fingers and gushing neck wound." based on the novel by Brian Garfield; director of photography John R. Leonetti; edited by Michael N. Knue; music by Charlie Clouser; production designer Julie Berghoff; produced by Ashok Amritraj Howard Baldwin and Karen Baldwin; released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 119 minutes." pretentious exploitation movie from James Wan (“Saw” and “Dead Silence”) Kevin Bacon plays Nick Hume an insurance adjuster who sees his oldest son die at the hands of a machete-wielding young punk during a street gang’s robbery of a gas station." language and drug use." setting off a police investigation and a cycle of violence that draws in the punk’s older brother Billy Darley (Garrett Hedlund) the gang’s leader; his interracially mixed crew; and his father Bones (John Goodman)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/30/movies/31self.html
as innocent pedestrians on the Las Vegas Strip are randomly fired at in what appears to be a drive-by shooting. The scene is  energetic and ominously gripping: qualities that the movie unfortunately fails to sustain." swear and engage in lewd sign language." Monty Lapica (Andrew Eriksen) Michael Bowen (Dan Jones) Greg Germann (Keith) Kristina Anapau (Nicole) and Matthew Carey (Aaron)." directed it and played the lead at 24) “Self-Medicated” records the self-destructive behavior of 17-year-old Andrew Eriksen whose pain over the death of his father manifests itself in a flirtation with the bong and the bottle." up to here with biblical aphorisms is especially ill advised; Andrew’s soul may be found but the movie’s is more lost than ever." Denis Maloney; edited by Timothy Kendall; music by Anthony Marinelli; production designer Nicholas Ralbovsky; produced by Tommy Bell and Mr. Lapica; released by ThinkFilm. In Manhattan at the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 107 minutes." Andrew’s barely functioning mother (Diane Venora) — whose drugs of choice are obtained by prescription — arranges to have her son kidnapped and committed to a hospital in Utah for detoxification and all-round rebooting." “Self-Medicated” suffers from severe dramatic droop. When the institutional “abuses” promised in the press notes fail to materialize (unless you count enforced standing and essay writing) the story becomes a monotonous loop of escape and recapture." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/30/movies/31ladron.html
” he yells triumphantly. He may be an amateur criminal but he’s a professional survivor." ” if directed by Robin Hood and financed by Telemundo “Ladrón Que Roba a Ladrón” is an effervescent comedy coasting on the charisma of its stars." Los Angeles Chicago Atlanta Dallas San Francisco and Jacksonville Fla." with English subtitles) by José Angel Henrickson; director of photography Adam Silver; music by Andrés Levin; production designer Christopher Tandon; produced by Roni Menendez James McNamara and Benjamin Odell; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 98 minutes." but their regular accomplices have either been deported or imprisoned. Cue the zany recruitment montage." spoon swear and take Tom Hanks’s name in vain." a smooth thief with a hidden agenda. Together with his exuberantly coiffed partner Alejandro (Fernando Colunga) Emilio plans to rob a Los Angeles infomercial king named Valdez (Saúl Lisazo) who has made his fortune by selling snake-oil remedies to poor Latino immigrants." a Cuban refugee and actor (Oscar Torre) poses as a union organizer to persuade Valdez’s staff members to strike. When they ask which union they will be joining the actor knows only one." “Ladrón Que Roba a Ladrón” (“A Thief Who Robs a Thief”) hews to the conventions of the heist movie while adding a sweet karmic kick. Forced to hire authentic day laborers — a valet parker to do the driving a television repairman to handle electronics — Emilio and Alejandro create a gang that’s as much a microcosm of immigrant aspiration as an instrument of blue-collar revenge." Miguel Varoni (Emilio) Julie Gonzalo (Gloria) Oscar Torre (Miguelito) Gabriel Soto (Anival) Saúl Lisazo (Valdez) and Ivonne Montero (Rafaela)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/29/movies/29quie.html
as they say is in the details. And as the two main characters Jamie (Erin Fisher) a visitor to New York from Atlanta and Charlie (Cris Lankenau) a recently unemployed New York resident make their way through Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn you are as likely to define them by who they’re not as by who they are." blue-gray light; an industrial landscape at sunset: These and other beautiful images photographed by Andrew Reed resonate with the characters’ lives." VH1 and tabloid television. Nor are they  soulless well-tailored M.B.A.’s or eccentric dot-com visionaries with billionaire agendas on whom the media also likes to dote." although there is nothing especially arty about their demeanor. Charlie confesses that his ideal job would be one in which he supported himself doing absolutely nothing. Jamie admits with some embarrassment that she works in an Applebee’s restaurant. She is very pretty while Charlie who doesn’t seem to have a vain bone in his body epitomizes the word schlub." and the two end up spending the next 24 hours drifting around New York. They drop in on a friend of Charlie’s to retrieve a borrowed hat and visit a Park Slope art opening and its after-party." directed and edited by Aaron Katz; director of photography Andrew Reed; music by Keegan DeWitt; produced by Brendan McFadden and Ben Stambler; released by 600 West. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 78 minutes. This film is not rated." Cris Lankenau (Charlie) Joe Swanberg (Adam) Sarah Hellman (Robin) Tucker Stone (Kyle) Michael Tully (Michael) and Karrie Crouse (Karrie)." dragging a suitcase approaches him to ask for directions to a diner where she is supposed to meet her New York friend Samantha. Charlie escorts her there and waits for Samantha to appear but she never does." “Quiet City” is a formal movie elegantly edited whose images both still and moving are conjoined to a soundtrack that reduces the noise of the city to an evocative background hum quiet but not silent. When music intrudes it tends to be minimalist pop played on a toy keyboard." so named partly because the young nerdy characters in these films rarely address any subject outside their immediate social sphere. If they don’t actually mumble their words the tone of their conversations is restricted to various shades of chat much of which seems trivial. It is a filmmaking sensibility filtered through Jean-Luc Godard and John Cassavetes and distantly related to punk with the spirit of defiance replaced by resignation to the art of diminished expectations." with its minimalist aesthetics minuscule budgets home-movie casting of friends and acquaintances  and its fly-on-the-wall quasi-documentary spontaneity is so wide-open for parody that it is a sitting duck for the most withering send-up.  “Quiet City” is fortunate to arrive just before the inevitable demolition crews arrive to tear it to shreds. Tender and sad it is a fully realized work of mumblecore poetry." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/29/movies/29nun.html
“The Monastery: Mr. Vig & the Nun ” he comes across as a hybrid of quasi-Dickensian curmudgeon and modern grumpy old man. Despite his ancient appearance Mr. Vig is remarkably spry and can scramble up a ladder with little effort. He is also shown tapping away at a computer. But in his black overcoat he has the visage of a thunderous avenger who with a wave of a scepter could bring down the wrath of God." which involve many hours of prayer “The Monastery” is a flighty disorganized film with a blurry timeline and a wandering attention span. As the camera explores the place some of the items it observes might be of interest to collectors for a Scandinavian edition of “Antiques Roadshow.” Or not." it poses a basic question: Are Band-Aids adequate to make the place habitable or is major surgery required? Should the leaky roof so heavy that it is destroying the walls beneath it be repaired or replaced? Sister Ambrosija the nuns’ young and vigorous de facto leader insists on surgery while Mr. Vig advocates patchwork. By the end of the film they have achieved a grudging mutual respect." the solitary 80-something misanthrope who inhabits the dilapidated Hesbjerg Castle in the Danish countryside resembles a gaunt white-bearded magician from a dusty old storybook who has stepped out of a woodblock illustration into the 21st century." Danish and Russian with English subtitles; director of photography Ms. Gronkjaer; edited by Pernille Bech Christensen; music by Johan Soderqvist; produced by Sigrid Dyekjaer; released by Koch Lorber Films. At Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 84 minutes. This film is not rated." and its discussion of the cultural implications of a Russian Orthodox monastery in Denmark is superficial." who bought the castle 50 years earlier intending eventually to turn it into a monastery reminisces about his life. The one person who seems to have emotionally touched him was his father whose death plunged him into protracted mourning. A dour bachelor he professes a lifelong suspicion of sex and the unhappiness it must  bring. Sadly since Sister Ambrosija’s story remains untold the documentary feels incomplete." six years in the making observes the complications that ensue after Mr. Vig decides to donate his castle to the Russian Orthodox Church so that it can be turned into a monastery. In its choice of subject the project is as far off the beaten track of documentary filmmaking as you could imagine." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/29/movies/29fury.html
profanity and sexual references." the gags and jokes are hit (mainly in the testicles with Ping-Pong paddles) and miss. Mr. Garant who directed does manage to approximate the grungy texture of old Hong Kong action movies and to execute the Ping-Pong sequences with some panache. But the movie seems to exist mainly so that some critic might say: If you see just one table tennis martial arts parody this year make it “Balls of Fury.” I’m afraid I can’t go that far." “Balls of Fury” shambles through a checklist of lowbrow comedy conventions. There’s borderline-offensive ethnic humor (Asians talk funny! They eat strange food and speak a different language!) a few bouts of queasily self-conscious homophobic humor and of course a gorgeous babe in short shorts (Maggie Q) who falls in love with our nebbishy hygienically challenged hero." Thomas Ackerman; edited by John Refoua; music by Randy Edelman; production designer Jeff Knipp; produced by Roger Birnbaum Gary Barber Jonathan Glickman and Mr. Lennon; released by Rogue Pictures. Running time: 90 minutes." since it would take me longer to recount the story than it took the screenwriters Thomas Lennon and Robert Ben Garant to come up with it. Dan Fogler looking like the love child of Jack Black and the pornographic-film star Ron Jeremy plays Randy Daytona a former Olympic Ping-Pong prodigy who comes out of retirement to avenge his father’s death and help an F.B.I. agent (George Lopez) catch Feng." ” about a tall skinny loser who dreams of rising to glory as a stuntman. The first movie I saw upon my return was “Balls of Fury ” about a short stubby loser who seeks glory in the world of competitive Ping-Pong. It’s like I never left!" who dresses in red brocade and whose passions are Ping-Pong and having people killed with poison darts shot from a blowgun." ” and it will be must viewing for Christopher Walken completists who have mislaid their special collector’s edition DVD of “The Country Bears.”" Christopher Walken (Feng) George Lopez (Rodriguez) Maggie Q (Maggie) Thomas Lennon (Karl Wolfschtagg) and Robert Patrick (Sgt. Pete Daytona)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/25/movies/25WAR.html
Pierre Morel; martial arts choreography by Corey Yuen; edited by Scott Richter; production designer Chris August; produced by Steven Chasman Christopher Petzel and Jim Thompson; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 103 minutes." who has shown a rugged understated machismo and wry winking humor in the “Transporter” films and the cartoonishly entertaining “Crank ” can’t match Mr. Li’s physical virtuosity but he generates emotional heat. With his blend of menace and melancholy his star remains ascendant." and stars like Bruce Lee and the young Jackie Chan didn’t need wires digital effects or firearms to convey their prowess? Today it seems anyone seeking a pleasant summer afternoon of dramatic Asian-style fisticuffs must settle for the kind of urban-action/martial-arts hybrid that is “War.”" with much blood and gunplay and many testosterone trappings (flashy cars high-tech weaponry) and tired cops-and-robbers settings (nightclubs gambling parlors harbor docks). At least there is a fierce duel with Japanese swords to lend that old-time juice." nudity and a decapitation or two." Devon Aoki the enchanting starlet from “Sin City” and “D.E.B.S. ”  is a fleeting diversion. Her Kewpie-doll  features pixieish voice and leaden line readings inadvertently provide a welcome comic respite." Mr. Li a veteran of Hong Kong cinema possesses true martial-arts skills. His character however is merely a cool gunman firing automatics while barely breaking a sweat amid flurries of lightning editing." ” Rogue (Jet Li) a mysterious killer for hire is tricking two San Francisco underworld families one Japanese and one Chinese into mutual slaughter. Obsessively on Rogue’s trail is an F.B.I. agent Jack Crawford (Jason Statham a British actor not troubling with an American accent) who suspects him of having murdered his partner." its climactic showdown is all too brief and its denouement abrasively abrupt. Most regrettably “War” squanders the considerable merits of its leads." Jason Statham (Crawford) John Lone (Chang) Devon Aoki (Kira) Luis Guzmán (Benny) and Saul Rubinek (Dr. Sherman)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24roun1-003.html
Petronella Barker (Anne Britt) Per Schanning (Hugo) Birgitte Larsen (Ingeborg) Johannes Joner (Havard) Ellen Horn (Trulsen) and Anders T. Andersen (Harald)." with English subtitles) by Per Schreiner; director of photography John Christian Rosenlund; edited by Vidar Flataukan; production designer Are Sjaastad; produced by Jorgen Storm Rosenberg; released by Film Movement. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 95 minutes. This film is not rated." “The Bothersome Man” unfolds in a sterile city where nothing is quite as it seems." a bewildered accountant whose arrival is rewarded with an undemanding job a featureless apartment and a docile girlfriend. Soon however Andreas notices a Stepford vibe to his new home: food has no taste booze offers no buzz and home decor is the primary topic of conversation. Increasingly distressed by his emotionless companions and soulless surroundings Andreas becomes mesmerized by the sound of music and the smell of homemade pie wafting through a hole in a basement wall. Where does it lead?" “The Bothersome Man” is either a creepy comment on Scandinavian depression or a sour glimpse of the afterlife as yuppie fantasy. With images of varnished symmetry — in a desperate bid for texture one man has festooned his ceiling with a canopy of light bulbs — Mr. Lien fashions an icy Nordic atmosphere disrupted only occasionally by flares of shocking violence. Quiet desperation has never looked so gorgeous." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24escr.html
Armen Kaprelian and Kent  Llewellyn former producers of HGTV’s reality show “House Hunters ” employ a Christopher Guest-style pseudo-documentary approach. As in Mr. Guest’s films much of the dialogue is improvised (here with wildly mixed results) and no matter how ridiculous the characters come off they’re more than just punch lines. In fact despite their quirks the three real estate agents and their clients — three couples in search of a dream home — featured in “Closing Escrow” are improbably endearing." some suggestive humor and many rabbit carcasses." which the film openly borrows may find themselves rooting for a couple of choice — and having fun in the process. The real-estate game can actually be a laughing matter when you’re not a contestant." Rob Brownstein (Allen) Colleen Crabtree (Mary) Andrew Friedman (Tom) Wendi McLendon-Covey (Hillary) Kirstin Pierce (Kelly) Ryan Smith (Richard) Bruce Thomas (Peter) Patty Wortham (Dawn) and Cedric Yarbrough (Bobby)." one of the couples are wholesomeness personified but Allen’s indecision tries the patience of their realtor. Dawn and Tom are more off- kilter: she models herself on Glenn Close’s character in “Fatal Attraction ” while their realtor uses shady but maybe not so farfetched tactics to lower property value. And Tamika and Bobby are money-driven lawyers about to become parents. As their realtor a brash blonde with forceful opinions on the suburbs racism and women’s lib Wendi McLendon-Covey steals the show." directed and edited by Armen Kaprelian and Kent Llewellyn; director of photography Scott Billups; produced by Kristen Cox; released by Magnolia Pictures. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 93 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24deep.html
Nina Kellgren; edited by Ben Lester; music by Molly Nyman and Harry Escott; production designer Jane Linz Roberts; produced by Al Morrow Jonny Persey and John Smithson; released by IFC Films. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 93 minutes." who had “messed about in boats” but probably had no business entering the race sponsored by The Sunday Times of London in 1968. Still Mr. Crowhurst got a press agent and an  investor to whom he basically sold his soul and was soon an underdog contender." fitted out with his own inventions leaked and began to fall apart leaving him with two options: He could turn back and face almost certain financial ruin or go ahead and face almost certain death. Instead he began lying about his progress. And he began to come unhinged. (“Now equal footing mermaids stop ” one telegram read.)" ” a fascinating documentary about the first single-handed around-the-world sailing race begins like a Boy’s Own adventure tale but ends up more akin to tragedy." though ends not with man conquering nature but in calamitous failure." which goes from eloquent descriptions of his trials and loneliness to sounding a bit like Mr. Kurtz." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24skid.html
Los Angeles and Washington D.C." Marshall Tyler and Ross Clarke; narrated by Pras Michel; music by Klaus Badelt; produced by Mr. Michel and Teryn Fogel; released by Screen Media Films. In Manhattan at the Village East Second Avenue at 12th Street East Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated." the documentary “Skid Row” is so raw that it’s virtually unwatchable. Unwisely choosing a recognizable hip-hop artist (Pras Michel of the Fugees) as their avatar the directors Niva Dorell Marshall Tyler and Ross Clarke have all but erased the line between social investigation and celebrity stunt." a tent and a Nation of Islam bodyguard Mr. Michel is unleashed within the five-block radius in downtown Los Angeles known as Skid Row. By means of hidden unfocused and wildly careening cameras his nine-day adventure as one of society’s blighted is recorded with the solemnity of a pilgrimage. Whether cowering in his tent as chaos reigns outside or delivering direct-to-camera confessionals in an underground parking garage Mr. Michel a vegetarian is painfully unprepared for his ordeal. Never before has he had to survive without his BlackBerry and Razr." “Skid Row” is a series of random impressions muffled conversations and inscrutable images apparently captured from curb height. Despite welcome interviews with those who have earned their insights the hard way — including the engaging Orlando Ward of the Midnight Mission and the Los Angeles Times columnist Steve Lopez — the movie succeeds only in replicating the aimlessness and repetitiveness of street life." like 20 whips ” says Mr. Michel more than 200 hours into his experiment. So will your eyeballs." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24resu.html
directed by Rod Lurie from a screenplay by Michael Bortman and Allison Burnett the setting has been moved to Denver and the fictional Denver Times where the triumph of Erik an eager-beaver sportswriter curdles into the nightmare of a sloppy overeager journalist who didn’t do his homework. For Mr. Lurie who specializes in political subjects “Resurrecting the Champ” is an encouraging return to film following the rise and fall of his television series “Commander in Chief.”" their give and take has just enough of an edge to make you squirm. The movie becomes a tentative detective story in which old photos and a vintage fight film become ambiguous clues to the life and career of the Champ whom many have presumed dead." his skin crumbling like old parchment and his hair in matted salt-and-pepper dreadlocks the Champ is by turns poignant wily secretive charming and pugnacious. And he can still throw a punch when half sober. At his most charismatic he has the aura of a holy fool maniacally trotting behind a shopping cart filled with junk that he refuses to let Erik examine because he says the contents are too personal. Mr. Jackson’s champ is entirely convincing and frequently incandescent." a legendary sportscaster is not quite the man Erik wishes he were.  When Erik wows his  6-year-old son  with made-up stories about his friendships with sports stars you wince at how desperately he strains to win his son’s adoration." its  protagonist Erik Kernan (Josh Hartnett) is fictional. His sudden reversal of career fortune following a brief heady triumph lends the movie moral traction." Adam Kane; edited by Sarah Boyd; music by Larry Groupé; production designer Ken Rempel; produced by Mike Medavoy Bob Yari Marc Frydman and Rod Lurie; released by Yari Film Group. Running time: 111 minutes." Erik has separated from his wife Joyce (Kathryn Morris) a fellow reporter for The Times. Joyce is so tense and ashen that you wonder what happened to their marriage but the movie offers no clues." the film sacrifices credibility for a weepy pandering pseudosincerity. For Mr. Hartnett who has the most screen time Erik is a much less demanding role than his policeman in “The Black Dahlia ” a movie he almost single-handedly sank with his clueless wooden performance. Playing a handsome feckless journalist on the fast track to celebrity he doesn’t have much more to do than fill out the image of a gung-ho  all-American dad with fixable character flaws." unsmiling Mr. Alda and David Paymer as the more gregarious editor of the  magazine who gives Erik his break by putting his  article on the cover." calling himself Satterfield but known on the streets of Denver as the Champ who once sparred with Rocky Marciano and came close to a shot at the heavyweight title. Erik first spots the Champ defending himself against three young bullies who ridicule his boasts then beat him to a pulp." Josh Hartnett (Erik) Kathryn Morris (Joyce) Rachel Nichols (Polly) David Paymer (Whitley) Teri Hatcher (Andrea Flak) Dakota Goyo (Teddy) and Alan Alda (Metz)." incongruous swerve into satire when the overnight star Erik is flown to Chicago by a cable network to be a commentator at a prizefight. Here he meets the network’s cynical motormouthed casting director Andrea Flak (Teri Hatcher) who regales him with an outrageous speech about how “the one thing people don’t want is the truth” and then puts the moves on him." sensing a career  coup befriends the bedraggled old fighter and takes him to a match he is covering. Impressed with the Champ’s canny assessment of the combatants he puts some of those observations into his  article and gains a modicum of respect from his grim critical boss Metz (Alan Alda) who until then had dismissed his writing as mechanical and colorless. Without telling Metz Erik approaches the  newspaper’s Sunday magazine with the story of Satterfield and is given a green light." published in 1997 in The Los Angeles Times Magazine. It told the story of an obscure 1950s boxer Battlin’ Bob Satterfield who was discovered living on the streets. It went on to be a finalist for a Pulitzer Prize an award Mr. Moehringer  won three years later for another feature." for all his lovability has a streak of cunning in his bright bloodshot eyes. Although he is genuinely down and out you wonder how much of  his holy-fool role is just a hustler’s pose." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24nann.html
it would help if the actors playing the two were evenly matched. But Ms. Johansson’s Annie who narrates the movie in a glum plodding voice is a leaden screen presence devoid of charm and humor. With her heavy-lidded eyes and plump lips Ms. Johansson may smolder invitingly in certain roles but “The Nanny Diaries” is the latest in a string of films that suggest that this somnolent actress confuses sullen attitudinizing with acting." high-strung snob and Ms. Streep’s chilly fashion empress are markedly different personalities. Mrs. X for all her pretensions of grandeur must answer to her husband (Paul Giamatti) a crude ugly foulmouthed boor who keeps his wife on a tight leash. (In one of his few exchanges with his son Mr. X barks to Grayer that he had better be ready to take over the world next week.) Miranda however calls the shots in her life. Where Ms. Linney’s Park Avenue mother can be heard screaming at her husband behind closed doors Ms. Streep’s Miranda never ever raises her voice." as is the subway (too many germs)." ” a scattershot screen adaptation of Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus’s 2002 satirical beach read has one unassailable asset. As this exposé of the rich and miserable on the Upper East Side  wobbles along uncertainly it rests on the tense squared shoulders of Laura Linney. Ms. Linney defies a screenplay that paints her character Mrs. X a Park Avenue socialite as a monstrous control freak. She is a smart flexible actress who invests her role a composite of former employers of the novel’s authors with enough humanity to arouse some pity." like the book is narrated by Annie Braddock (Scarlett Johansson) a New Jersey-born anthropology student hired by Mrs. X to be the latest in a stream of nannies for her spoiled little boy Grayer (Nicholas Reese Art). In many ways Mrs. X is as much a slave driver as Miranda Priestly the fashion editor indelibly played by Meryl Streep in the movie version of the novel “The Devil Wears Prada.”" Laura Linney (Mrs. X) Paul Giamatti (Mr. X) Nicholas Reese Art (Grayer) Donna Murphy (Judy Braddock) Alicia Keys (Lynette) and Chris Evans (Harvard Hottie)." a nurse (Donna Murphy) who has pinched pennies to pay for her daughter’s college education by telling her she has a trainee job on Wall Street. Her relationship with her childhood best friend (Alicia Keys) also suffers. But just before the big bad wolves — the rich and powerful — are about devour the Little Red Riding Hoods in these books they see the light and parachute into improbably soft landings." based on the novel by Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus; director of photography Terry Stacey; edited by Mr. Pulcini; music by Mark Suozzo; production designer Mark Ricker; produced by Richard N. Gladstein; released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer  and the Weinstein Company. Running time: 105 minutes." Annie is forced to dress like Betsy Ross. When Grayer insists on using his father’s private bathroom Annie stumbles into Mr. X’s inner sanctum to find him canoodling with an assistant. The movie’s most biting sequence is of an obligatory mommy-nanny seminar at which cowering nannies (most from poor countries and with limited English) are encouraged to air their grievances against their employers and achieve harmony." whose facilitator wears a frozen smile and addresses the assembly in the unctuous tones of a grade-school teacher is the only scene in the movie to hint at the rot under the charade. Nothing is allowed to disturb the fantasy of perfect moms making perfect lives for their perfect children. For an ugly satisfying moment the rock is lifted." which consists mostly of soapsuds. The storytelling is rushed and sloppy. It’s only a matter of days before the boy in Annie’s charge makes a ludicrous U-turn from hellion into little angel." Robert Pulcini and Shari Springer Berman had a different movie in mind. The pair who created “American Splendor ” the quirky portrait of the Cleveland comic-book writer Harvey Pekar make amusing use of Annie’s anthropology studies. In a sequence at the American Museum of Natural History Annie playing tour guide points to various social types posed like prehistoric figures in dioramas. In a Mary Poppins-inspired fantasy she is also shown sailing across the New York skyline under a red umbrella." ” which play to our voyeuristic schadenfreude regarding the lives of the rich and powerful it is essential to pile on the juicy inside details that show exactly how these people drive themselves and everyone around them crazy. Although “The Nanny Diaries” has an abundance of such details the movie is in far too much of a hurry to take a breath and develop them into polished comic set pieces." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24kamp.html
a debris-strewn ghost town where human kindness is overflowing." Mr. Redmon and Ms. Sabin; edited by Tim Messler Ms. Sabin and Mr. Redmon; music by Eric Taxier; produced by Deborah Smith and Dale Smith; released by Carnivalesque Films. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 75 minutes. This film is not rated." the owner of a home-repair business and his wife an American Indian known as Ms. Pearl opened their backyard  to displaced people on the condition that they find jobs and not cause trouble. Those promises were more easily made than kept." working-class and poor guests include addicts petty criminals and a mentally ill man who says Joan of Arc is his girlfriend. Some are  tossed out for fighting stealing or substance abuse or reprimanded for taking too many liberties. Early on Ms. Pearl is surprised to find a man in their shower and asks him to please warn them next time. “I don’t want a naked man in my shower without notice ” she says “unless it happens to be John Goodman.”" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24ille.html
“Illegal Tender” features telenovela dialogue (“He’s not bad news Wilson he’s the worst news there is”) and a surprisingly racist insinuation. “Dig deep enough into people’s lives and you’re gonna find stains ” says Millie at one point implying that all successful minorities prospered by dubious means. Not exactly a suggestion one expects from a John Singleton production." Frank Byers; edited by Tony Ciccone; music by Heitor Pereira; production designer Keith Brian Burns; produced by John Singleton; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 108 minutes." “Illegal Tender” is an old genre movie with a new look. Call it Hispanixploitation." Wanda de Jesús (Millie) Samuel Molina (Older Man) Rick Sepulveda (Joey) Manny Perez (Wilson DeLeon Sr.) Rick Gonzalez (Wilson DeLeon Jr.) D. C. Benny (Ceasar) and Mercedes Mercado and Carmen Perez (Latina Killers)." which is also an opportunity to pad the plot with jiggling behinds and strobe-lit bosoms. (Like most fictional drug lords the villain here does all his business in a crowded nightclub.) But though Mr. Gonzalez does his best to appear threatening his callow confrontations with the cream of Puerto Rico’s underworld are no more convincing than his mother’s twisted family values." women in heat and guns in closets." a pistol-packing mama whose violent past is nipping at her heels the movie gives her a lavish Connecticut lifestyle (financed by her late husband’s drug money) and two oblivious sons. But when gangsters from the old neighborhood come calling it’s up to the elder boy (Rick Gonzalez) to  protect the family unit." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24hott.html
viewed entirely through William’s eyes awkwardly throws in some family psychology. His distant macho father from Fort Worth is a stoic noncommunicator who might have dropped out of a Sam Shepard drama and is played by Mr. Hawke as though he were impersonating Mr. Shepard. William’s embittered mother Jesse (Laura Linney) hammers him with the kind of hardheaded advice no fervent romantic wants to hear. People aren’t going to love you back and you’re going to die anyway so get over yourself she tells him." William turns into a stalker who delivers soliloquies from “Romeo and Juliet” under her apartment window and compulsively harasses her on the telephone. For any rejected lover who has succumbed to such desperation these scenes are excruciatingly real and Mr. Hawke deserves credit for exploring a place visited by many more men than would care to admit it." unformed adults in erotic collision." Mr. Webber’s emotionally risky wide-open performance makes this infinitely self-dramatizing youth considerably more charming. Not long after he and Sara meet they spend six days in Mexico where he is about to appear in a film of Tennessee Williams’s “Camino Real.” Following this de facto honeymoon during which they briefly contemplate marriage Sara returns to New York. When he comes back after finishing the movie he discovers that in his absence she has decided she doesn’t want a boyfriend." composed by Jesse Harris who has written hits for her) Sara might be described as a drip. Although attractive enough she exhibits little of the dignity and determination of Ms. Moreno’s title character in “Maria Full of Grace ” and the actress’s lingering discomfort with the English language doesn’t help matters. (In the novel her character was an American from Seattle.) The issue bedeviling Sara is whether to surrender herself to a consuming relationship or resist; she makes the sensible decision to back off." with a tenuous narrative continuity “The Hottest State ” whose title refers both to passion and to Texas is far more coherent than Mr. Hawke’s 2001 directorial debut “Chelsea Walls.” At around the halfway point however its characters’ haranguing voices begin to grate on you. People in their early 20s even pretty people lose their appeal when they dwell this obsessively on their own inchoate turmoil." words like that fall on deaf ears." talky film “The Hottest State ” which he adapted from his own semi-autobiographical 1997 novel doggedly peels away the gloss to dive into the emotional swamp where two young people get lost in each other. As it follows the coupling and uncoupling of William Harding (Mark Webber) an aspiring young actor from Texas and Sara Garcia (the Colombian actress Catalina Sandino Moreno) a Latina pop singer from Connecticut who lives in downtown Manhattan you feel their growing pains much more acutely than their fleeting happiness." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24door.html
Tom Richmond; edited by Jeffrey M. Werner; music by tomandandy; production designer Ramsey Avery; produced by Palmer West and Jonah Smith; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 93 minutes." Rory Cochrane (Brad) Tony Perez (Alvaro) Scotty Noyd Jr. (Timmy) Jon Huertas (Rick) and Max Kasch (Corporal Marshall)." where Brad (Rory Cochrane) is safe at home when the blasts occur but his wife Lexi (Mary McCormack) is caught in the virus-laced ash on her way to work. The third star of the film is duct tape: Brad seals up as instructed by the radio and then must make a decision when the contagious Lexi returns home." especially in its resolution feels a bit like a “Twilight Zone” episode and might have been better at that length but the acting’s pretty good and the cinematography keeps things lively." ” a doomsday-style film by Chris Gorak with a twist worth waiting for. Explosions presumably engineered by terrorists leave Los Angeles in a toxic haze and the long shots of the downtown area shrouded in smoke will bring back all sorts of memories." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24dedi.html
Stephen Kazmierski; edited by Andy Keir; music by Edward Shearmur; production designer Teresa Mastropierro; produced by Celine Rattray Daniela Taplin Lundberg and Galt Niederhoffer; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 93 minutes." a raven-haired artist fresh from heartbreak and eager to punish herself further. Henry may be no one’s idea of a catch — he fears cars and uses books for blankets — but Lucy whose own mother is all but certifiable has a high tolerance for indie-movie quirkiness. And as the ending becomes more manifest than Henry’s neuroses what began as an oddball study of a jagged male friendship devolves into cliché and compromise." the marvelous Mr. Crudup is seldom less than mesmerizing. In one remarkable breathless monologue he almost makes you believe a girl could do worse than give her heart to a misanthropic obsessive-compulsive. Not on my watch." Mandy Moore (Lucy Riley) Tom Wilkinson (Rudy Holt) Martin Freeman (Jeremy) Bob Balaban (Mr. Planck) Dianne Wiest (Carol) Christine Taylor (Allison) Amy Sedaris (Sue) and Bobby Cannavale (Don)." ” a movie that reveals its toxic intentions only gradually. Until it does there is much to enjoy in the prickly odd-couple relationship of Henry (Billy Crudup) and Rudy (Tom Wilkinson) successful writing partners and longtime friends. Together they watch bad pornography and discuss Henry’s many mental problems. “We communicate nowadays through damage ” opines the significantly older Rudy before succumbing to a brain tumor. Robbed of his illustrator and enabler and contractually obligated to deliver another book Henry must find a new partner." a little snuggling and a lot of mental disorder." “Dedication” is almost saved by David Bromberg’s tart dialogue and exceptional acting from its three leads. Ms. Moore is soft and appealing in a thankless role diluting the barbed camaraderie of the film’s early scenes and humanizing a screenplay defined by dysfunction. And if Mr. Theroux had only kept his nerve and ended with his penultimate scene a bittersweet reconnection to the central male friendship “Dedication” would have been a different better movie." ” Hollywood is falling over itself to introduce beautiful smart young women to useless possibly brain-damaged young men. Regular bathers need not apply." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24dawn.html
and Jacob urging God to please send Satan’s children to hell amen — in a grimly righteous tone that begs for the punch line “Now please pass the ham.”" founder of Mormonism “Dawn” alludes to the persecution that the insular polygamist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints endured in the early 19th century." “Dawn”  commemorates the mass murder     of horse-traders and their families  traveling through Utah Territory on their way to California from Arkansas. The Mormons already wish ill upon the sugar-sweet  settlers but their ire blossoms when a teenage Mormon named Jonathan Samuelson (Trent Ford) son of the glowering Mormon bishop Jacob Samuelson (Jon Voight) falls for one of the wagon-train party a kindly gal (Tamara Hope)." Trent Ford (Jonathan Samuelson) Tamara Hope (Emily Hudson) Jon Gries (John D. Lee) Taylor Handley (Micah Samuelson) Huntley Ritter (Robert Humphries) Krisinda Cain (Young Woman) Shaun Johnston (Captain Fancher) Lolita Davidovich (Nancy Dunlap) Dean Cain (Joseph Smith) and Terence Stamp (Brigham Young)." Juan Ruiz-Anchia; edited by Jack Hofstra; music by William Ross; production designer Rick Roberts; produced by Scott Duthie Mr. Cain and Kevin Matossian; released by September Dawn Voice Pictures and Black Diamond Pictures. Running time: 111 minutes." grotesque western “September Dawn ” about the  massacre on  Sept. 11 1857 of  about 120 settlers by Mormons  (and their  Paiute Indian mercenaries) apes “Schindler’s List” in hopes of creating a Christian Holocaust picture." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/24/movies/24bean.html
sometimes mischievous but mostly well-intentioned title character Mr. Atkinson essentially plays a child (in grown-up attire) which is only proper given the audience this movie is squarely directed at. Yes there are subtitles involved but so what? The kids at my screening loved it. Besides at its heart Mr. Atkinson’s movie a huge hit overseas speaks in an international language." based on a story by Simon McBurney and the original character created by Rowan Atkinson and Richard Curtis; director of photography Baz Irvine; edited by Tony Cranstoun; music by Howard Goodall; production designer Michael Carlin; produced by Peter Bennett-Jones Tim Bevan and Eric Fellner; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 87 minutes. This film is rated G." Emma de Caunes (Sabine) Jean Rochefort (Maître D’) Karel Roden (Emil) Max Baldry (Stepan) and Willem Dafoe (Carson Clay)." ” the British comedian Rowan Atkinson continues a tradition that in the right hands — Buster Keaton Jacques Tati even Jerry Lewis in “The Bellboy” — never gets stale: comic pantomime. Or in this case near-pantomime since Mr. Atkinson in a sequel 10 years after  “Bean ” speaks but only rarely. He doesn’t have to. His googly eyes gangly physique and elastic countenance are just fine for delivering the goods." against a sun-drenched candy-colored French countryside. The whole escapade ends up at the Cannes Film Festival where Willem Dafoe does an amusing turn as a vain director." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/22/movies/22stai.html
“Hannah ” the third feature by the Chicago writer-director-editor Joe Swanberg is less notable for its story than for what the movie itself represents: an evolutionary entry in the so-called Do It Yourself (or D.I.Y.) independent film movement which is being celebrated this week in Greenwich Village in an IFC Film Center series titled “The New Talkies: Generation D.I.Y.”" Kent Osborne (Matt) Andrew Bujalski (Paul) Mark Duplass (Mike) Ry Russo-Young (Rocco) Todd Rohal (Brian Duges) Tipper Newton (Minne) and Kris Williams (Gaby)." Mr. Swanberg and a few notable American D.I.Y. directors. All acted in the movie and contributed to the screenplay transforming what might otherwise have been merely a slight but likable comedy into the D.I.Y. equivalent of a rock ’n’  roll supergroup: the mumblecore Asia." because he  is less likely to show them working than to depict them musing sardonically on their reluctance to work.) He at first seems a step up for Hannah: a gifted writer and an un-self-consciously affectionate lover. But he’s so busy with his career that he neglects her allowing his buddy and unspoken creative rival Matt (Mr. Osborne) to breeze in. Matt and Hannah bond over the fact that they both play trumpet and their first collaboration an all-thumbs duet of the “1812” Overture seals the connection." more often video); its overwhelmingly white college-educated myopic and aimless characters; its improvised camerawork plots and dialogue; and its preference for fleeting observations over huge epiphanies. Eric Masunaga — a sound recordist for a leading D.I.Y. filmmaker Andrew Bujalski (“Mutual Appreciation”) — coined a memorable term to describe it: mumblecore." “Hannah” plays like an incidental swan song a signpost marking the point when mumblecore became a nostalgic label rather than a present-tense cultural force and its most acclaimed practitioners moved on to bigger things. Mr. Swanberg’s third movie is a graduation photo in motion: D.I.Y. class of ’07." the movie’s snappy but unadventurous  style — episodic structure deadpan performances and raggedy improvisational dialogue — makes it a less-than-ideal introduction. Better to start with Mr. Swanberg’s more daring “LOL ” with its mosaic-style split screens and complex overlapping dialogue or Aaron Katz’s profane yet touching teenage sex comedy “Dance Party USA” (Aug. 28 and 29 at IFC). “Hannah” runs through Aug. 28." ” laments the title character of “Hannah Takes the Stairs ” “and I’m never the funny one.”" Hannah is neurotic sweet and mildly sarcastic in a Gen Y-Diane Keaton sort of way and her small-stakes odyssey through three relationships is wryly observed." “Hannah” will evoke melancholy feelings and not just because the heroine finds (probably temporary) bliss without seriously examining her preconceptions. Mr. Bujalski is writing a movie for Paramount; Mr. Duplass and his brother and filmmaking partner Jay Duplass are writing and directing features for Universal and Fox Searchlight and have sold a television series to NBC; Mr. Swanberg and Ms. Gerwig are already finishing a new movie and are so talented that they may not have to scrounge for financing for the next one." Paul and Matt are played respectively by Mr. Bujalski and Kent Osborne a former host of TBS’s “Movie Lounge” and the co-writer  and star of the 2000 Sundance Film Festival entry “Dropping Out.” Mr. Bujalski who plays Paul is a wry bespectacled vaguely mentorish presence in his own movies and a cameo player in Mr. Swanberg’s second feature the technological-romantic satire “LOL ” screening Sept. 2 and 3 at IFC." played by Mark Duplass star and co-writer of the outstanding microbudget road picture “The Puffy Chair” (which screens Aug. 26 and 27 at the IFC Center). Mike takes Hannah to the shore produces matching sets of vacuum-sealed goggles that can’t be opened by hand then later attempts a “9 1/2 Weeks” sexual routine with ice cubes. Without consciously meaning to Hannah de-eroticizes Mike’s maneuver by shivering dramatically then co-opts the ice cubes and crunches them throughout their breakup conversation." Greta Gerwig and Kent Osborne; director of photography Mr. Swanberg; music by Kevin Bewersdorf; produced by Anish Savjani and Mr. Swanberg; released by IFC First Take. At the IFC Center 323 Avenue of the Americas at Third Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 83 minutes. This film is not rated." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/20/movies/20legi.html
so obvious is her surprise emergence from beneath armor as the Firth character’s mysterious sidekick. Yes she’s a she and no her martial-arts-style fighting abilities aren’t very convincing as filmed by Doug Lefler the director. Ben Kingsley does an Obi-Wan Kenobi impersonation as a mystical fighter turned teacher who fills Romulus’s head with airy advice." Ben Kingsley (Ambrosinus) Aishwarya Rai (Mira) Peter Mullan (Odacer) Kevin McKidd (Wulfilla) John Hannah (Nestor) and Thomas Sangster (Romulus)." in which a handful of loyal warriors try to protect a youngster who is the last Roman emperor has beloved images and gimmicks that suggest “Star Wars ” “Raiders of the Lost Ark ” “Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon ” even “Planet of the Apes.” But alas the ragtag band doesn’t have any of the lovable insolence of say “Pirates of the Caribbean.” Its few attempts at humorous camaraderie fall flat leaving you wondering why this grim group wants to keep living at all." based on a story by Carlo Carlei Peter Rader and Valerio Manfredi partially based on the book by Mr. Manfredi; director of photography Marco Pontecorvo; production designer Carmelo Argate; produced by Martha De Laurentiis Raffaella De Laurentiis and Tarak Ben Ammar; released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and the Weinstein Company. Running time: 101 minutes." a 12-year-old with the blood of Caesar in his veins. This dour child wouldn’t inspire anyone’s protective instincts and he doesn’t exactly show signs of greatness. In the climactic battle he stands by idiotically while his chief protector (Colin Firth) is beaten nearly to death by a nasty Goth then  he intervenes with his magic sword." and his wife Martha and daughter Raffaella are producers so the grand ambitions here are understandable. And misplaced. This might have made a good children’s film." ” a sword-and-sandal spectacle from those epic-loving De Laurentiises invokes a lot of better movies on its circuitous trip from the Roman empire to the Arthurian legend but it doesn’t do the one bit of borrowing that could have made this journey enjoyable." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17supe.html
his voice shrill with hope and panic." cuddly vision of modern masculinity that it seems rude to wonder if it’s honestly felt (which is what I think) self-flattering (ditto) or cunningly opportunistic (nah). Certainly it’s testosterone-heavy if not exactly macho. And indeed part of what’s fascinating about Mr. Apatow’s ascendancy and why the comedy moment belongs to him more than it does  either to the Farrelly brothers or to Ben Stiller and his mob is how he has created — and come close to perfecting — a masculine variation on  aspirational wish-fulfillment movies like “Legally Blonde.” Except instead of perky pretty women reaching up up up Mr. Apatow offers  freaks and geeks aching to be worthy of those same women." it’s no surprise that the director of “Superbad ” Greg Mottola doesn’t leave much of an imprint. Mr. Mottola whose first and last big-screen effort was the fine 1996 comedy “The Daytrippers ” has spent much of the last decade working in network television (sometimes with Mr. Apatow) and it shows. In “Superbad ” his setups and camerawork serve the characters unobtrusively as do the homey production design and costumes." last seen scoring in “Knocked Up ” and his childhood friend Evan Goldberg “Superbad” follows two high school seniors — also named Seth and Evan — who together set off on a long night’s journey into the soul. Actually what they do is try to booze up and party down with some school hotties during a nighttown adventure in missed opportunities and unexpected revelations. Time is short: summer looms as does the fall when Evan (Michael Cera excellent) will depart for Dartmouth alongside his classmate Fogell (the newcomer Christopher Mintz-Plasse) leaving behind his academically challenged best friend Seth (Jonah Hill). The future holds promise even for Seth yet also threatens the worst especially if they don’t become some girl’s morning- after headache." Mr. Cera moves like one of those teenagers whose body hasn’t yet fully caught up to his newly reached height. With his wide-open face and smile he looks absolutely amazed by what he can see from a higher elevation (the world!). But of course he looks  surprised: he’s the top half of the exclamation point to the spherical Mr. Hill’s rolling big dot." Michael Cera (Evan) Seth Rogen (Officer Michaels) Bill Hader (Officer Slater) Kevin Corrigan (Mark) Joe Lo Truglio (Francis the Driver) Martha MacIsaac (Becca) Emma Stone (Jules) Aviva (Nicola) and Christopher Mintz-Plasse (Fogell)." well such is the way of the wish-fulfillment fantasy. Mr. Apatow shamelessly stacks the deck in favor of his  underdogs — the future doctors lawyers and Hollywood hitmakers of America no doubt — but his intentions are generally righteous and his humor doesn’t depend too heavily on flatulence or sadism. Or filmmaking." especially to other men — and how he really feels inside largely defines the comedic ethos of Judd Apatow one of the movie’s producers and its spiritual laughing light. Much like “The 40-Year-Old Virgin” and “Knocked Up ” both of which Mr. Apatow directed and either wrote or helped write “Superbad” largely works not because the jokes are funny which they generally are even on the spitometer. It works because no matter how unapologetically vulgar their words no matter how single-mindedly priapic their preoccupations these men and boys are good and decent and tender and true. They never take cruel or callous advantage. They call. They love. They marry." lived-in and honest. Much like Mr. Rogen who alongside Bill Hader puts in an unfortunately overextended appearance in “Superbad” as a dangerously juvenile cop the young male actors in “Superbad” look as pleasantly sympathetically real as they behave. They’re at a total and happy remove from the musclebound cartoons of prime-time and action-flick reveries." ” as Alexander Portnoy’s shrink believes in “Superbad” it is thoroughly stunningly clueless and as violently tremulous as a divining rod at Hoover Dam. Along with Fogell a walking irritant with mad skills (he  procures a fake ID) Seth and Evan prowl their high school in search of — what precisely? From their bawdy language filled with vivid anatomical notes and gaudily colorful phrasing the three would very much like to bed some “ladies ” as Fogell insists on calling them in a tragicomic bid at Kanye West suavity. The tearful joke being that these yapping pups wouldn’t know what to do with any woman much less the bosomy babes of their whipped-cream and dirty dreams." funny tale of three teenage boys revved up by their surging churning flooding hormones the movie joins the tumescent ranks of similarly themed works about male sexual desire — consider “Portnoy’s Complaint ” think “Porky’s” — and its somatic epiphanies treacherous secretions anguished lessons and apparently limitless storehouse of embarrassments. Behold the man (well boy): fully sexed and wholly touchingly virginal." Russ Alsobrook; edited by William Kerr; music by Lyle Workman; production designer Chris Spellman; produced by Judd Apatow and Shauna Robertson; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 117 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17sunf.html
set in 1976 9-year-old Xiangyang (Zhang Fan) finds his unruly pleasurable existence halted by the return of his upright father Gengnian (Sun Haiying). A painter who can no longer draw after six years in a labor camp Gengnian furiously nurtures his son’s artistic talent despite the misgivings of his wife (a marvelous Joan Chen) and the violent rebellion of Xiangyang himself. The pattern for the next three decades has been set." “Sunflower” parallels the upheavals in Xiangyang’s life with those of his country exploring the tension between tradition and modernity with insight and intimacy. With each subsequent chapter Mr. Zhang deftly reveals the massive changes in the urban landscape as high-rise buildings tower over communal courtyards and cars block the passage of Gengnian’s old bicycle. As Xiangyang struggles to fashion his own life his quest reflects the hopes of an entire generation." Joan Chen (Zhang Xiuqing) Liu Zifeng (Lao Liu) Zhang Fan (Xiangyang at age 9) Gao Ge (Xiangyang at age 19) and Wang Haidi (Xiangyang at age 32)." with English subtitles) by Mr. Zhang Cai Shangjun and Huo Xin; director of photography Jong Lin; edited by Yang Hongyu; music by Lin Hai; production designers An Bin and Huang Xinming; produced by Peter Loehr and Han Sanping; released by Seville Pictures/New Yorker Films. At the Lincoln Plaza Broadway at 62nd Street. Running time: 129 minutes. This film is not rated." “Sunflower” is a shamelessly old-fashioned melodrama performed with such sincerity that resistance is futile. Following a troubled father-son relationship over more than 30 years in post-Cultural Revolution Beijing the movie utilizes a simple dramatic structure to support a narrative filled with tumultuous social change." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17levi.html
Gherardo Gossi and Massimiliano Trevis; edited by Claudio Cormio; music by Daniele Sepe; released by the Cinema Guild. At the Quad Cinema 34 West 13th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 92 minutes. This film is not rated." Mr. Ferrario keeps his eyes open and his opinions to himself. Merging excerpts from Mr. Levi’s works (read by Chris Cooper) with amusing snippets of Soviet propaganda movies the director employs a lively inquisitive tone to counter his often melancholy Eastern European locations. This is exemplified in a vigorous interview with the Polish director Andrzej Wajda conducted in the once-thriving steel mill of Nowa Huta and punctuated by rousing clips from his epic mystery “Man of Marble.”" “Primo Levi’s Journey” retraces the writer’s arduous return from a newly liberated Auschwitz in January 1945 to his home in Italy more than eight months later." “Primo Levi’s Journey” is a serendipitous reminder that the cultural consequences of capitalism are inseparable from — and often less welcome than — its economic promise." the Italian filmmaker Davide Ferrario and his crew seek out ordinary people with extraordinary stories. A grieving sister in Ukraine recalls the murder in 2000 of her musician brother by Russian-speaking youths who objected to his Ukrainian songs. An eloquent resident of Pripyat near Chernobyl mourns the transformation of his home from “a city of children” into a ghost town." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17hour.html
literally as demonstrated by the images of overflowing landfills and sickeningly polluted bodies of water that flicker through the movie like damning evidence. Structured in mainstream fiction-film fashion (in other words like a term paper) it opens with an introduction that presents the case builds momentum with an absorbing analytical middle section and wraps up with just enough optimism that I didn’t want to run home and stick my head in an energy-efficient oven. No matter how well intentioned political documentaries that present problems without real-life real-time real-people solutions — an 800 number an address something — just add to the noise (pollution) becoming another title on some filmmaker’s résumé as well as a temporary salve for the audience’s guilt." this sequence provoked a colleague to invoke the name of the avant-garde giant Stan Brakhage but the truer visual and structural model here is a film like “Koyaanisqatsi ” with its streaming global landscapes. The difference is that the images in “The 11th Hour” are pointedly horrifying not reassuring pacific or aestheticized." in part because it is this all-too-human quality that may finally force us to fight the good fight against the damage  we have done and continue to do. As the saying goes keep hope alive — and if you’re holding this review in your hands don’t forget to recycle the paper." much of what’s said in the movie will be agonizing and familiar. Gasping children disappearing animals gushing oil billowing smoke dying lakes emptying forests warming weather — the list of ills is numbingly familiar. In the movie’s eye-catching opener the directors riffle through a veritable catalog of timely snapshots some obvious (a smoggy skyline) others less so (a human fetus)." dozens of scientists activists gurus policy types and even a magical-mushroom guy go through the arguments present the data and criticize the anti-green faction putting words to the images that are liberally interspersed between these talking heads like mortar. Every so often Mr. DiCaprio pops up on screen to interrupt this show and tell squinting into the camera and pushing the narrative to the next topic." it’s bad but it’s not over yet. Many of those same sober talking heads also argue with equal passion that we can save ourselves along with the sky above us and the earth below. The capacity for human beings to fight to rise to the occasion as Mr. Woolsey notes invoking America’s rapid albeit delayed jump into World War II gives hope where none might seem possible." which the directors clearly know. They whip through the pictures and the interviews fast — at times a little too fast — and keep the information flowing as quickly as the visuals. This swift steady pace means that you receive a lot of bad news from a lot of different sources. The ecologist Brock Dolman explains “When we started feeding off the fossil fuel cycle we began living with a death-based cycle.” From there the topic nimbly jumps to climate change national security (courtesy  the former director of the C.I.A. R. James Woolsey) Katrina asthma and the stunning news from the oceanographer and author Sylvia Earle that “we’ve lost 90 percent of most of the big fish in the sea.”" yeah yeah the environment blah blah blah melting ice caps. To judge from all the gas-guzzlers still fouling the air and the plastic bottles clogging the dumps it appears that the news that we are killing ourselves and the world with our greed and garbage hasn’t sunk in. That’s one reason  “The 11th Hour ” an unnerving surprisingly affecting documentary about our environmental calamity is such essential viewing. It may not change your life but it may inspire you to recycle that old slogan-button your folks pinned on their dashikis back in the day: If you’re not part of the solution you’re part of the problem." Peter Youngblood Hills and Andrew Rowlands; edited by Pietro Scalia and Luis Alvarez y Alvarez; music by Jean-Pascal Beintus and Eric Avery; production designer Ms. Conners; produced by Mr. DiCaprio Ms. Petersen Chuck Castleberry and Brian Gerber; released by Warner Independent Pictures. Running time: 91 minutes." and narrated on-  and off-camera by Leonardo DiCaprio who served as one of the producers “The 11th Hour” attempts to stave off helplessness and the nihilism that often follows  it mostly by appealing to our reason." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17them.html
their nature revealed in a splendid closing shot and elucidated in a final series of title cards." Roman Polanski and early Steven Spielberg (particularly “Duel” and “Jaws ” two masterworks of strategic concealment). The elliptical editing plentiful medium-distance compositions and haunted-house sound effects (rustling leaves snapping twigs) obscure the physical facts of menace and violence. Imagination fills in the blanks." mechanical burbling. Then her car moves about 100 meters away from its original parking spot and when the lovers leave the house to learn what happened the vehicle drives away seemingly of its own volition." it’s a letdown. While ambiguity is box-office poison you wish that Mr. Moreau and Mr. Palud had held onto it as long as possible. Mystery is the marrow of horror." underappreciated 1961 ghost story “The Innocents ” an adaptation of Henry James’s “Turn of the Screw.” That movie likewise kept viewers guessing as to whether the heroine was imperiled by mortal or immortal enemies and whether the story’s disturbing incidents were real or conjured (in some sense of the word) by her roiling repressed emotions." with English subtitles) and directed by David Moreau and Xavier Palud; director of photography Axel Cosnefroy; edited by Nicolas Sarkissian; music by René Marc Bini; produced by Richard Grandpierre; released by Dark Sky Films. At the Cinema Village 22 East 12th Street Greenwich Village. Running time: 78 minutes." ensuring that a goodly share of the film’s tiptoeing-down-a-long-hallway sequences unfold in a disorienting flicker. When Clémentine and Lucas peek outside through the windows their eyes are seared by what could be either flashlight beams or otherworldly illumination." set in and around a besieged house in the woods — seems less old-fashioned than classical. The movie revels in atmosphere using long unbroken takes and ambient sound (crickets wind) to lull you into complacency before unleashing nerve-jangling shocks." a satire or a commentary. It’s just a modestly relentless suspense picture that propels its characters through a series of dreamscapes: a haunted house a spooky forest a dungeon of sorts. A large part of its effectiveness stems from the initially inscrutable nature of the threat." “Them” concentrates on just two characters — young lovers named Clémentine (Olivia Bonamy) and Lucas (Michaël Cohen) who teach at the French Lycée in Bucharest and live in a huge house in a remote forest. The plot is really a glorified situation: one quiet night for no discernible reason all hell breaks loose and the lovers struggle to discover the nature of the attack fight back as best they can and plot their escape." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17mari.html
” a light romantic comedy billed as the first United States-India co-production India provides one of its biggest stars (the bad boy Salman Khan) gorgeous scenery (Goa Bombay Rajasthan) a genre (the Bollywood musical) and even the daughter of a Nobel Prize winner (the actress Nandana Sen whose father is the economist Amartya Sen)." anything-goes quality and Mr. Carroll’s script lacks punch and dimension. Worse Marigold’s transformation from arrogant starlet to woman in love is more baffling than believable." a bratty American C+ movie star stranded in Goa. Lickety-split she is cast in a Bollywood film providing the occasion for songs and dances and lickety-split she tumbles for the film’s suavely sincere choreographer Prem (Mr. Khan with his honeyed voice and winning smile)." refreshingly doesn’t apologize for or waste time explaining an industry and a style that most Americans still regard as silly. Instead he honors them." Salman Khan (Prem Rajput) Nandana Sen (Janvi) Ian Bohen (Barry) and Helen Khan (Roopa)." a writer-director (Willard Carroll whose credits are mainly in children’s film and television) and an aspiration — to capture the spirit of Bollywood — that would have been considered a head-scratcher in Hollywood just a few years ago." Anil Mehta; edited by Anouradhaa Singh; music by Graeme Revell with songs by Shankar Ehsaan Loy lyrics by Javed Akhtar and Truth Hurts; choreography by Vaibhavi Merchant and Remo; production designers Jon Bunker and Nitin Desai; produced by Charles Salmon and Tom Wilhite; released by Hyperion Pictures and Adlabs Films. Running time: 110 minutes." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17kong.html
Los Angeles Seattle and Austin Tex." though — and that’s what the soft-spoken challenger Steve Weibe a science teacher hopes to achieve against the champion Billy Mitchell a hot-sauce mogul and a force behind Twin Galaxies whose gaming chops landed him on the cover of Life back when feathered hair was cool." ” Seth Gordon’s documentary about two men vying for the high score in Donkey Kong. But even if you didn’t lose years of your life to that deviously entertaining Reagan-era arcade game Mr. Gordon’s movie still succeeds as a portrait of a subculture: Kong-heads who videotape each game to send to Twin Galaxies a governing body in Hollywood Fla. empowered to validate high scores." Mr. Gordon; music by Craig Richey; produced by Ed Cunningham; released by Picturehouse. Running time: 79 minutes." Mr. Gordon deploys pop hits (notably “Eye of the Tiger”) in a half-sincere half-kidding way pads his running time with repetitive montages and portrays Mr. Weibe as a plaster saint and Mr. Mitchell as a pretentious manipulative swine. (Although both have children only Mr. Weibe is shown doting on them.) But the movie’s “Rocky” formula proves irresistible anyway; unsurprisingly New Line has commissioned Mr. Gordon to remake this story with actors." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17inva.html
one suggesting that to be human is to be purely and violently self-interested — a pod person of a kind but with a gun." “The Invasion” lurches and drags and teeters on the brink of death from scene to scene; it plays as if it had been made by someone in a trance though not a cool one. The glaring technical glitches are just the beginning. The film looks murky and at times blurred (the cinematographer has done fine work elsewhere) and it’s been badly overedited in a transparent bid to goose the action to create a suggestion of narrative tension. But nonsensical jump-cuts and incoherent flash-forwards can’t raise the dead. That said the vomiting does look great. (The aliens spread their evil ways by hurling like booze-soaked frat boys a gesture that takes on increasingly symbolic weight as the movie plays and peters out.)" wasted here as her best friend." based on the novel “The Body Snatchers” by Jack Finney; director of photography Rainer Klausmann; edited by Joel Negron and Hans Funck; music by John Ottman; production designer Jack Fisk; produced by Joel Silver; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 96 minutes." Daniel Craig (Ben Driscoll) Jeremy Northam (Tucker Kaufman) Jackson Bond (Oliver) Jeffrey Wright (Dr. Stephen Galeano) and Veronica Cartwright (Wendy Lenk)." at some point during production the directing chores were handed over to their sometime collaborator James McTeigue who performed the same duties on the almost equally moribund “V for Vendetta.” (The original director here Oliver Hirschbiegel retains credit.)" 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17fune.html
restore gravity to the event and deliver a stirring valediction. But Mr. Oz and Mr. Craig don’t go easy on him. The strait-laced Simon (Alan Tudyk) is frightened to be in the same room as his potential father-in-law (Peter Egan) so his fiancée Daniel’s cousin Martha (Daisy Donovan) filches him a Valium belonging to her brother Troy (Kris Marshall). Unfortunately for Simon Troy is a freelance drug chemist and that Valium is actually an illegal experimental hallucinogen; over the course of the film Simon (played with phenomenal focus by Mr. Tudyk) goes from stoner bliss to cokehead paranoia to clothes-rending madness and eventually ends up — oops sorry; that’s another one of the six." whose seemingly vast reserves of patience slowly evaporate; a family acquaintance named Justin (Ewen Bremner) who tagged along hoping to steal Martha’s heart; and Daniel’s best friend Howard (the scene-stealing fussbudget Andy Nyman) a germophobe assigned to accompany Daniel’s cantankerous wheelchair-using Uncle Alfie (Peter Vaughan) who is therefore guaranteed to wind up on the receiving end of the nastiest of Mr. Oz’s six sensational gags." natch) who shows up uninvited reveals a secret demands a share of the family fortune and spends much of the film hogtied and abused. Peter’s short stature and homosexuality are presented as an obvious (albeit comic) source of menace and the script — which goes out of its way to make every other character at least fitfully endearing — never treats him as anything but a ridiculous inconvenience." Daniel (Matthew Macfadyen of “Pride and Prejudice”) a super-responsible sad sack who arranged his father’s funeral. Daniel is a would-be writer who has promised his wife (Keeley Hawes) that they’ll move out of mom’s house one day. He’s terrified of delivering a eulogy in the presence of his brother Robert (Rupert Graves) a pampered hotshot novelist who has flown in first class from New York yet pleads poverty when asked to cover his half of the funeral expenses. Daniel must also juggle the emotional demands of myopic squabbling guests and the anxiety of an overscheduled reverend (Thomas Wheatley) whose timetable is thrown out of whack when the deceased’s body — well I won’t spoil that gag because it’s one of the six." ” as well as the tedious remake of “The Stepford Wives”) he has a knack for peppering safe commercial projects with ecstatically deranged situations." but “Death at a Funeral” stands apart because its characters — mostly reserved upper-middle-class British folk who have gathered to bury a patriarch — are determined to keep a stiff upper lip no matter what. That’s no small feat when one of the mourners has ingested a psychedelic drug and another is secretly holding a would-be blackmailer hostage in a room mere meters from where the body lies in state." and it’s hard to describe them without ruining their impact. Suffice it to say Mr. Oz stages them with such wicked glee that they eclipse the movie’s problematic aspects (more about those in a moment) and its reflexive mostly regrettable attempts to add “heart ” an organ that should be banned from farce unless the director intends to jam a steak knife through it." but Peter’s treatment feels singularly cheap. It takes an infamous sardonic Randy Newman lyric at face value: “Don’t want no short people ’round here.”" Oliver Curtis; edited by Beverley Mills; music by Murray Gold; production designer Michael Howells; produced by Diana Phillips Share Stallings Laurence Malkin and Sidney Kimmel; released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures and Sidney Kimmel Entertainment. Running time: 90 minutes." nudity drug use and an excremental sight gag." Keeley Hawes (Jane) Andy Nyman (Howard) Ewen Bremner (Justin) Daisy Donovan (Martha) Alan Tudyk (Simon) Jane Asher (Sandra) Kris Marshall (Troy) Rupert Graves (Robert) Peter Vaughan (Uncle Alfie) Thomas Wheatley (the Reverend) Peter Egan (Victor) and Peter Dinklage (Peter)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/17/movies/17bala.html
it chooses inflammatory images over sober reportage. Several grainy fragments of ransom videos in which desperate victims plead for help make the skin crawl. A man in a ski mask calmly describes his career path from petty thief to bank robber to kidnapper then justifies himself as a Robin Hood who gives back to the poor neighborhood where he lives. In Brazil he observes dryly you either steal with a gun or steal with a pen." Heloisa Passos; edited by Andy Grieve Doug Abel and Jenny Golden; produced by Mr. Kohn Jared Ian Goldman and Joey Frank; released by City Lights Pictures. At the Angelika Film Center Mercer and Houston Streets Greenwich Village. Running time: 85 minutes. This film is not rated." a flashy documentary about corruption injustice and frog farming in Brazil is a weird hybrid of political exposé and sensationalistic fluff. As it flip-flops between one mode and the other it suggests a combination of “Darwin’s Nightmare ” the recent deadly serious French documentary about the despoiling of Lake Victoria and “Mondo Cane ” the sensationalistic 1962 film that inaugurated a genre of globe-trotting documentary voyeurism." money laundering and the buying of politicians “Manda Bala” would rather spend its time showing slimy brown frogs slithering over one another as they are dumped from one container into another. The camera lingers over images of frog cannibalism in which a starving frog attacks and gobbles another head first the legs splayed grotesquely out of its mouth. That image may not mean much but you’ll never forget it." the movie states serves as a money-laundering operation for Jader Barbalho a powerful allegedly corrupt Brazilian politician accused of siphoning millions of dollars for his own use from Sudam a development program to help the poor in Brazil’s Amazon region. Mr. Barbalho who in a superficial interview denies owning a frog farm is the movie’s designated villain. Though he is held up as symbol of everything rotten in Brazil the movie doesn’t lay a glove on him." “Manda Bala ” which was named best documentary at this year’s Sundance Film Festival is packed with bad news that isn’t nearly as fresh as the movie pretends. It has already been widely reported that in São Paulo a city of 20 million where the rich live side by side with the destitute an epidemic of kidnappings has produced a thriving business in bulletproof cars." one to give to robbers. He looks forward to having a computer chip implanted in his body that will reveal his whereabouts to the authorities should he be kidnapped. He attends a special course for armored-car owners that leaves him feeling more insecure than before;  he learns that close-up rifle shots can penetrate a bulletproof windshield. Many of the city’s rich now feel safe only when traveling by helicopter." which were sent to her parents recalls her 16-day captivity next to a television set that was never turned off. A plastic surgeon who specializes in ear reconstruction proudly describes his work; then the procedure is shown." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/15/movies/15deli.html
ready to trample one another in a stampede at the next celebrity sighting." Elvis Costello (playing himself and sounding amused) shows up at a party and announces that he and K’Harma are collaborating on a Broadway-bound musical about the life of Britney Spears. The movie visits a Soap Stars Against STD Convention at which self-described “STD survivors” mouth icky platitudes. Sometimes however the satire goes seriously out of control as in an impenetrable spoof of daytime drama." you leave the movie feeling as though you have gazed into a closed circle of hell where everybody feeds off everyone else until there is nothing left." K’Harma Leeds (Alison Lohman) a shallow talent-free Britney-Paris-Lindsay amalgam with the allure of a tarnished rhinestone in the dump that passes for a glamorous nightclub. K’Harma’s albums sell 10 million units declares a publicist a detail that suggests the screenplay was completed before the record industry’s precipitous decline. She has also lent her name to a new celebrity scent Instant K’Harma." which Les is dying to enter is inevitable and rapid. Spotted by Dana (Gina Gershon) a casting agent attending the soap-star benefit Toby is pegged as “a natural.” In no time he metamorphoses from Dana’s client to her lover and then her ex-lover. Ms. Gershon’s magnetic hard-shelled agent is too shrewd to let her wounded vanity interfere with business." whom he allows to sleep in a storage cabinet in his shambles of an apartment stuffed with photo equipment. But Toby with his androgynous charisma is fated to be a star. The first time he crosses K’Harma’s path she notices him. By the end of the movie they are sweethearts and he is a budding soap opera star. But Toby is ultimately as much of a cipher as K’Harma." who has fewer pretensions is an unkempt star-struck bottom feeder who shamelessly tries to worm his way into events where he can pilfer as many goodie bags as he can grab and convince himself that he is not his worst nightmare “a peon.” His latest coup circulated on the Internet is a candid snapshot of a male star hobbling out of a plastic surgeon’s office following penile surgery." Frank G. DeMarco; edited by Paul Zucker; music by Anton Sanko; production designer Teresa Mastropierro; produced by Robert Salerno; released by Peace Arch Entertainment. Running time: 106 minutes. This film is not rated." haggling by cellphone  in limousines as they approach a premiere at which two media flavors of the week have been programmed in a militarylike operation to arrive simultaneously and fall into a less-than-spontaneous kiss." he boasts) recall Martin Scorsese’s still-underappreciated 1983 satire “The King of Comedy ” in which Robert De Niro’s character Rupert Pupkin ascends by hook and by crook from predatory fan to big-time comedian. If Les lacks the psychotic chutzpah of Rupert he harbors the deadly potential to become a Mark David Chapman." he seems on the verge of starvation when he attaches himself as a volunteer gofer to Les Galantine (Steve Buscemi) a ratty paparazzo. With his buggy eyes and crooked teeth Mr. Buscemi  (who also appeared in Mr. DiCillo’s 1995 film “Living in Oblivion”) gives a courageously repulsive performance as a loudmouthed parasite who seriously brags about getting a shot of Goldie Hawn eating lunch." Michael Pitt (Toby Grace) Alison Lohman (K’Harma Leeds) Gina Gershon (Dana) Callie Thorne (Gabi) Kevin Corrigan (Ricco) and Elvis Costello (himself)." following “Interview ” in which Mr. Buscemi  plays someone abrasively rubbing elbows with fame. There he is a corrupt downwardly mobile political journalist given a hack assignment to profile a starlet (Sienna Miller) to whom he feels so superior he doesn’t bother to prepare." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/15/movies/15zebr.html
a disabled boy and a government agent suffering from an embarrassing itch: these are the unlikely heroes of “Zebraman ” Takashi Miike’s bizarre detour from ultraviolence into family fare." with English subtitles) by Kankurou Kudo; director of photography Kazunari Tanaka; edited by Yasushi Shimamura; music by Koji Endo; art director Akira Sakamoto; produced by Makoto Okada and Tsuguo Hattori; released by Media Blasters Releasing. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater 155 East Third Street at Avenue A East Village. Running time: 115 minutes. This film is not rated." and all is not well in the Yachiyo ward of Yokohama. Rape and arson are on the increase bearded seals are swimming upriver and a crustacean-headed serial killer is on the loose. When reports of more “nonhuman life forms” begin to circulate Japan’s defense agency dispatches fabulously inept “Men in Black”-style agents (including the one with the itch) to investigate. Also on the case is Ichikawa (Sho Aikawa) a mild-mannered teacher who along with his disabled student is obsessed with a long-canceled television show about a superhero named Zebraman. Donning a homemade zebra suit and a new heroic identity Ichikawa sets out to save his district." Zebraman is a tragic touching figure too often obscured by Kankurou Kudo’s hyperactive screenplay and a special-effects team drunk on alien slime. Mr. Miike fashions unexpectedly arresting images — the weird stillness of an ocean of emerald ooze the surreal beauty of Zebraman’s lacerated costume — but the movie heaves with possessed schoolchildren aggressive eggplant and a pea-green baby. “Japan doesn’t need nukes ” says a sign near the end of the movie. With all this going on who would?" Kyoka Suzuki (Kana) Teruyoshi Uchimura (Ippongi) Yui Ichikawa (Midori) Koen Kondo (Segawa) and Akira Emoto (Kani-Otoko)." 
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/15/movies/15love.html
raffling off sex is not whoring Hermila rationalizes to her best friend Georgina (Georgina Castro) a prostitute. Nor is it promiscuous since she will sleep only with the winner. With the proceeds she imagines she will be able to leave Iguatu with her baby and start a new life." Maria Menezes (Maria) Zezita Matos (Zezita) João Miguel (João) Georgina Castro (Georgina) and Claudio Jaborandy (Claudio)." with English subtitles) by Mauricio Zacharias Felipe Bragança and Mr. Aïnouz based on a story by Mr. Zacharias and Mr. Aïnouz; director of photography Walter Carvalho; edited by Isabela Monteiro de Castro and Tina Baz Le Gal; music by Berna Ceppas and Kamal Kassin; produced by Walter Salles Mauricio Andrade Ramos Hengameh Panahi Thomas Häberle and Peter Rommel; released by Strand Releasing. At the Film Forum 209 West Houston Street west of Avenue of the Americas South Village. Running time: 88 minutes. This film is not rated." ” directed by Karim Aïnouz offer a dry-eyed ground-level examination of life in Iguatu where the only beauty to be found is in the bright blue desert sky which in Walter Carvalho’s cinematography conveys an epic sense of distance. After trying to eke out some cash by selling raffle tickets for a bottle of whiskey Hermila —  who is well built with chiseled vulpine features —  realizes that her only salable asset is her body. Why not assume a pseudonym and sell raffle tickets promising the winner a romantic “night in paradise?” There are many takers although some men wonder if they can sample the merchandise before plunking down the price of a ticket." hard-edged performance by Ms. Guedes whose character camouflages her dreamy romantic side under a shell of arrogance and determination. But in its final third the film loses its way. Instead of following the raffle and the villagers’ response it turns inward and takes uncomfortable leaps into the fuzzy surreal realm of Hermila’s imagination. It feels as though the director either lost his nerve lost his financing or lost interest in examining the consequences of Hermila’s willful risky defiance of convention." Hermila resumes a relationship with an old boyfriend João (João Miguel) but when she brings up the raffle as a “what if” possibility he thinks she’s crazy. As she goes through the village selling tickets word gets around and her reputation plummets. Even after her grandmother viciously slaps her face and threatens to throw her out of the house Hermila stands her ground." “Madame Satã ” which examined the fantastic life of a transvestite prostitute and underground entertainer in 1930s and ’40s Rio de Janeiro. But it shares the earlier film’s deep sympathy with sexual free spirits in a rigid macho society." the desolate rural village in northeastern Brazil where Hermila (Hermila Guedes) a spirited 21-year-old single mother arrives from São Paulo with her baby boy in “Love for Sale ” is the kind of oppressive backwater young people dreaming of a better life flee at the first opportunity. Hermila grew up there and she returns filled with giddy fantasies of living happily ever after with her true love. Her boyfriend Matheus who fathered the baby has promised to marry her and should arrive any day. Until he joins her she and the baby stay with her aunt Maria (Maria Menezes) and grandmother Zezita (Zezita Matos)." and she is unable to reach him by phone or even to get news of his whereabouts. Visiting Matheus’s mother she is brusquely reminded that after all Matheus is only 20; what does she expect?" 
